"","x"
"1","From 1975 to 2011, more than 200 peace agreements concluding conflicts mentioned women in some fashion in approximately 40 percent of cases (p. 1; however, on p. 9, the figure is 32 percent). Drawing on the Burundi agreement (Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement, 2000), the Northern Ireland settlement (Good Friday Agreement, 10 April 1998), and the Macedonian treaty (Ohrid Framework, 2 August 2001), Miriam J. Anderson explores the conditions that lead to the inclusion of women at the peace table—or not. Her analysis embeds these cases in a study of the existing literature on peace building, mediation, negotiation, women and war, human rights, and norm diffusion thinking."
"2","By and large, women inserted themselves into the agreements ending the Burundi and Northern Ireland cases because of several conditions. For one, these were long conflicts during which women inserted themselves into civil society to take on roles usually closed to them. Then, women reached across their group identities to emphasize their gender unity over ethnic ties. In addition, women—especially in North Ireland—had a tradition of political activism, and in both successful cases, women called on international women's groups, including UNIFEM (United Nations Development Fund for Women), for reiteration of their demand to be included in peace negotiations and to include in those treaties commitments to women's human rights as indelible as those of men. After the 1995 Beijing World Conference on Women, the cry “women's rights are human rights and human rights are women's rights” became a mantra for political women in many nations."
"3","The Macedonian example, a conflict of short duration, was one in which the Macedonian women's organization did not reach out to its Albanian sisters but remained wedded to its ethnic identify. General readers might find parts of this book a tough slog, particularly where the author couches straightforward observations in elaborate circumlocutions. Is it truly necessary to include a regression analysis in the conclusion, which basically repeats what was stated over and again in the chapters? What would have been helpful would have been a list of abbreviations used throughout the book. The reader is forced to flip pages to recall, for instance, that TANS are transnational advocacy networks or that HR means human rights."
"4","A bit troubling is the opening claim that more than 30 countries sent representatives to the 1915 women's peace initiative at the Hague, presented as the first case of women engaging in international politics and antiwar efforts. It was probably self‐appointed delegates from 12 nations with ties from suffrage campaigns, and the meeting was not the first of its kind. Their desire to participate in the final peace conference was ignored in 1919 by the Allied victors, although a few, such as Woodrow Wilson, met privately with women who had supported the war."
"5","Troubling also is the implication in the title—that women “seized” peace negotiations for political change. That promises are made assuring women's civil rights to property ownership, their rights to equal opportunity and education, and so forth, hardly means these phrases result in basic social and cultural change. At best, the language provides women with a potential cudgel in peace time to cash in the promissory notes."
"6","The author has seriously explored the conditions that make women's causes viable in some cases and what contributes to their failure. Her presentation would have been improved substantially by careful editing to remove repetitions—particularly using the same language over and again to demonstrate the inclusion of women (pp. 121, 124, for example)."
"7","                        "
"8","SANDI E. COOPER"
"9","City University of New York"
