"","x"
"1","This book chronicles the post‐2001 political turmoil on either side of the Pakistan–Afghanistan frontier that catalyzed the revival of the Afghan Taliban and the emergence of a Taliban movement in Pakistan. It provides a sane Pakistani perspective on why international intervention did not solve the Taliban problem, and it explores the myriad attendant subplots of Pashtunwali, drones, suicide bombing, proxy warfare, jihad and organized crime, the rise and fall of Pervez Musharraf, A.Q. Khan's nuclear proliferation, South Asian regional competition, policing, education, and so on. But for the inside story of the Taliban movements themselves, the reader will have to look for more specialized texts."
"2","The broad narrative is familiar to students of South Asia. The Afghan Taliban emerged from its country's civil war in the 1990s, captured Kabul in 1996, and experimented in Islamic authoritarianism. Youngsters from Pakistan's tribal areas also volunteered to serve in the Taliban army. The collapse of the Taliban government pushed the remnants of its “foreign legion” into Pakistan's tribal areas, where they were hosted by Pakistani veterans of the Taliban. A cycle of botched military operations in the tribal areas, alternating with ill‐conceived “peace agreements” allowed emergent Pakistani militant groups to expand their influence along the frontier. Meanwhile, poorly managed international state building in Afghanistan allowed the Taliban to reorganize and launch the insurgency. The key turning points in the Pakistani Taliban campaign were the 2007 siege of Islamabad's Lal Masjid, followed by the merger of militant groups to form the Tehrik‐i‐Taliban and then the militant takeover of Swat. Hassan Abbas takes the story up to 2014, with the Pakistani Taliban engaging in terrorism across the country but with zero prospect of taking over, while he assesses that the fate of Afghanistan depends on U.S. funding decisions. If the United States continues to fund Afghan security forces, they can keep the Taliban at bay. If not, the Afghan Taliban can grab power."
"3","Hassan wisely avoids declaring Pakistan in crisis or exaggerating the role of its army in proxy warfare. He offers a concise Realpolitik explanation of the relationship between the “Haqani network” and the Pakistan security establishment. The establishment tries to support the Haqanis to check the threat of increasing Indian influence in Afghanistan. But the balance of power often ends up favoring the Haqanis, who dictate terms to their patrons. On al Qaeda–Taliban relations, Hassan is more with the hawks than with the doves—the Afghan Taliban had ample warning about the consequences of sheltering Osama bin Laden but, by 2001, as a willing accomplice."
"4","One thing the book lacks is a serious analysis of the organizational structure and leadership of the Taliban movements. Hassan cites 2008 interviews by Graeme Smith with Taliban fighters to claim that the movement is a coalition of local networks. My research indicates that the Afghan Taliban has a centrally appointed parallel administration and military command spanning the whole country. Its armed groups can operate without orders but depend on the center for strategic guidance and recognition—an effective combination of centralized and decentralized action. I also suggest the author adopt a more critical approach with regard to the role of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar. Hassan credits Omar with authorizing Taliban diplomacy in Qatar on the basis of the Eid statements that the Taliban published in Mullah Omar's name. However, Mullah Omar has not been seen in public since 2001. No audio recording of his has been published since 2008, and the movement has not disclosed any evidence to support claims that he authored the Eid statements."
"5","                        "
"6","MICHAEL SEMPLE"
"7","Harvard University"
