"","x"
"1","The development of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) was a watershed moment in the evolution of the federal budget process. But its origination did not come about magically, nor was its ability to deliver timely, objective, non‐partisan analysis always assured. Philip Joyce gives us the story of the Congressional Budget Office, from the perspective of a former staffer and keen admirer. He walks us through the challenges within the budget system that necessitated the creation of an organization that could provide Congress with economic forecasts and fiscal analyses, and clearly illustrates the determination of key players to establish an agency that could deliver honest, effective, non‐biased data in response to proposed legislation."
"2","Passage of the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921 provided for presidential distribution of congressional appropriations as well as annual development of a federal spending plan for administrative agencies each year; it also created the Bureau of the Budget, now the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), which was charged with developing annual economic forecasts and analysis of fiscal priorities as offered by the executive branch. So while Congress maintained the power of the purse, the President controlled the checkbook. A little over 50 years later, and in response to escalated conflict between the executive and legislative branches over budgetary controls and spending efforts, The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 “made Congress full partners in the budget process” through creation of, among other things, the budget resolution, budget committees, and the congressional OMB‐equivalent, the CBO. Charged with developing independent economic estimates and assessments of the president's budget, the mission of the CBO was to provide an unbiased alternative to the White House's economic analysis of its own policies and proposals. “CBO's story is not just about technocrats and analysis but also, to use Wildavsky's famous phrase, about ‘speaking truth to power”’ (p. 5)."
"3","The organization of the book is representative of the way in which the organization itself is arranged. It begins with a legislative history of the CBO's establishment and functionality in relation to Congress and then moves on to its structural and ideological establishment as a non‐partisan arbiter of honest numbers. Joyce notes that key challenges were associated with shifts in party control in the executive or the legislative branches, assessments of White House policy initiatives, and the impact of that analysis, and difficulties in leadership transitions, particularly in terms of maintaining its reputation for objectivity (p. 34). The book describes at length the steps taken by the various CBO directors to ensure and enhance the organization's independence and credibility."
"4","Subsequent chapters on macrobudgeting, microbudgeting, and policy analysis correspond to the agency's functional structure; the CBO's divisions are oriented around budgetary policy, fiscal analysis, and policy analysis activities, respectively. In addition to numerous examples provided in each chapter, the author details the CBO's role in President Bill Clinton's health plan and President Barack Obama's health care reform to provide comprehensive illustrations of the importance of the CBO's contribution to public policy."
"5","Early on, Joyce describes the orientation of the book: “It is perhaps surprising to many and obviously disturbing to some that a group of unelected bureaucrats, working in an agency that is only about thirty‐five years old, now plays such a significant role in the system of US policymaking. This really raises two critical questions. First, how did this happen? Second, is it good for the country?” (p. 3). The author uses interesting examples, detailed descriptions, and insights gleaned from previous directors and managers to provide thought‐provoking and insightful answers."
"6","                        "
"7","KAREN KUNZ"
"8","West Virginia University"
