"","x"
"1","In this fine new book, David M. Lampton offers an authoritative depiction of how China's leaders view their domestic and international environments and how they respond to pressures from each. It is authoritative not just because of Lampton's stature in the field but also because the book is based on meetings and interviews over more than three decades with Chinese leaders, bureaucrats, and scholars. His description of elite perceptions does not address factional differences among leaders at a given point in time or changes over time among different generations of leaders. Other scholars have teased out these differences. Instead, Lampton reminds us that China's leaders have also shared a common perspective over the past few decades."
"2","Lampton gives a compelling picture of how China's leaders have set their priorities in the post‐Mao era. Deng Xiaoping gets the most attention, which is appropriate because his priorities—pursuing economic reform and opening policies while maintaining the Chinese Communist Party's monopoly on power, engaging in pragmatic experimentation, adopting material incentives and markets, promoting talented people, and so on—remained the priorities of subsequent leaders. The most recent leaders—Hu Jintao, Wen Jiabao, and now Xi Jinping—surprisingly are less prominent. The implication is that they generally see things the same way, even though they have different policy preferences and different political styles. Lampton shows that “leaders at all levels differ, not in their worries, but in the solutions they can envision to address them and in their governing styles” (p. 141). In the foreign policy arena, the pattern is different: the priorities of China's leaders have changed dramatically over the years, but their negotiating style has remained mostly constant. This suggests a cultural element to foreign relations that is more important than in domestic politics, an intriguing possibility that deserves further study. It is all too rare to have a single book address issues of elite politics, domestic governance, civil‐military relations, and foreign policy, but Lampton does so effectively in this book."
"3","The key innovative element in the book is Lampton's use of interview material from decades of visits to China. In some cases, these were one‐on‐one interviews, but more often he was part of delegations of government officials, business leaders, or scholars. The book is sprinkled with long, unedited excerpts from his notes, with short verbatim quotes sprinkled in with longer shorthand summaries. In providing a clear depiction of how China's leaders view their domestic and foreign challenges, Lampton avoids evaluating how accurately they perceive the world around them. For example, China's leaders are preoccupied with fears of stability, but many outside observers think their worries are out of proportion to the threats they actually face. There is also a tendency to accept statements at face value, not distinguishing personal insights from hyperbole, figures of speech, or paying lip service to the party line when meeting with foreign visitors. Lampton lets the reader make those calls, but he misses the opportunity to give his assessment of them."
"4","In the last chapter, Lampton switches from evaluating the past to offering his conjectures about the future, emphasizing what China's leaders should do, not necessarily what they are likely to do. The book ends on a wistful note: if the United States hopes to influence China's future, it should first solve its own problems."
"5","The book is intended for general readers more than China specialists, but even specialists will benefit from Lampton's insights and themes, and especially the numerous interview excerpts that are the highlight of the book. In addition, the book will be valuable as a supplemental text for courses on Chinese politics."
"6","                        "
"7","BRUCE DICKSON"
"8","George Washington University"
