"","x"
"1","Edward Kaplan seeks to explain “the rise and fall of air‐atomic power in the early Cold War” (p. 6). He accomplishes this and more, providing a book that should be widely read by students of nuclear strategy. The broad elements of the story are familiar. Yet the devil is in the details; terms such as “massive retaliation” and “assured destruction” are used imprecisely by many scholars. Kaplan offers precision by mustering an impressive array of declassified sources to deftly trace the evolving role of American nuclear strategy as interservice politics, civilian leaders, and the changing strategic environment interacted to advance new ideas and operational plans. In doing so, he advances our understanding of U.S. strategic policy."
"2","Kaplan shows how the newly independent U.S. Air Force succeeded in appropriating nuclear weapons into existing concepts after World War II. This led to the advent of air‐atomic strategy, which sought to provide the United States with the most efficient and moral path to victory. Initially, this centered on using bombers to destroy Soviet industrial capability. Later, as Soviet nuclear forces grew, the focus turned to an “offensive‐defense” (p. 107) that sought to destroy Soviet nuclear capabilities and force Soviets acquiescence. The air‐atomic mission assured not only the independence but also the preeminence of the air force. This changed with the arrival of the John F. Kennedy administration's “whiz kids” and the inevitable onset of strategic nuclear parity. Assured destruction followed, claiming that “a sufficient deterrent could be fashioned from a secure retaliatory force that could ride out … [a] powerful Soviet attack and then inflict unacceptable damage” (p. 179). The change removed the nuclear offensive from the centerpiece of American strategy, forcing a shift in the air force identity."
"3","While Kaplan's analysis is impressive, there are several issues that remain underdeveloped or problematic. First, historians and political scientists have directed renewed attention at an old question: does nuclear superiority matter? Kaplan convincingly shows that it does in one sense. American perceptions of superiority provided a permissive environment in which the air‐atomic ideas could take hold. Kaplan is on less solid ground, though, in asserting that the United States had superiority as long as it did. He notes that definitions of superiority were debated at the time but provides little discussion to demonstrate the Americans objectively possessed superiority. Kaplan may be right, but the lack of discussion makes it difficult to judge the issue."
"4","Second, Kaplan asserts that American superiority and the willingness to execute air‐atomic policy deterred Soviet adventurism. Again, Kaplan may be correct. But there is little evidence provided in the book exploring Soviet policy to back up that position."
"5","Third, while Kaplan argues that bureaucratic politics, ideas, and individuals had influence, it is unclear how much they mattered. He notes at several points that the impending onset of nuclear parity ultimately meant that air‐atomic ideas were destined to be overtaken. Historians may be comfortable with this complexity, but Kaplan misses an opportunity to probe the relative importance of the various factors and assess counterfactuals. This is not merely an academic issue. It has real implications today, as U.S. nuclear capability relative to that of most rivals is in the category of superiority that Kaplan identifies with the early Cold War. If the past is a guide, as Kaplan asserts and with which I agree, it would have been helpful to tackle whether superiority matters for understanding superiority today and if not, why."
"6","                        "
"7","PAUL C. AVEY"
"8","Virginia Tech"
