"","x"
"1","Michael Minta's analysis makes a strong contribution to the fields of minority politics, descriptive representation, and, more broadly, legislative oversight by re‐focusing the lens of the study of racial/ethnic diversity in legislative bodies from voting behavior to the important, yet overlooked, activity of congressional oversight. This concise volume introduces new evidence, based on the committee activity of black and Latino members of Congress (MCs), to test a theory of “strategic group uplift,” and convincingly demonstrates that black and Latino MCs advocate for minority interests in civil rights and social welfare policy oversight hearings to a greater degree than do their white counterparts."
"2","The theoretical basis for the study, what Minta terms “strategic group uplift,” is introduced in detail in chapter 1. The motivations of MCs form the basis for strategic group uplift, recognizing that their reelection prospects are driven by constituent preferences, yet arguing that minority MCs are also motivated to advocate for minority group interests beyond their district (thus, the term group uplift). However, minority lawmakers, with limited resources, must be strategic in their advocacy of minority interests such that broader advocacy also provides credit‐claiming opportunities. White lawmakers, however, do not face such overlapping motivations, and thus black and Latino MCs are more likely to display higher levels of advocacy for black and Latino issues, respectively."
"3","Following a comprehensive literature review and a strong justification for examining civil rights and social welfare, chapters 4 (civil rights) and 5 (social welfare) deliver what is probably the strongest contribution of the study—an empirical analysis of the legislative oversight behavior of minority lawmakers in two policy areas. Minta is convincing in his argument that legislative oversight and the role of minority lawmakers in oversight committee hearings are overlooked in much of the research yet hold important policy implications with unique opportunities for minority lawmakers to engage in strategic group uplift. A myriad of factors may blur unique voting patterns, but advocacy in oversight committees is clear, allows for credit claiming, and responds to additional motivation beyond district‐specific concerns."
"4","The empirics focus on the level of MC advocacy, measured as the number of lines attributed to an MC in transcripts of social welfare and civil rights hearings during the 103rd, 104th, and 107th Congresses. The measure intends to capture the amount of time and resources each MC spent on a particular hearing's issue. Using this measure as the dependent variable, Minta then shows that black committee members exhibited more transcript lines on civil rights policy in the 104th and 107th Congresses, and Latino committee members in the 107th. Black and Latino committee members also contributed significantly more lines to transcripts of committee hearings on social welfare in the 104th Congress. Minta argues that while not consistent over time, oversight activity uniquely focuses on administrative (mis)behavior, and thus Democratic administrations may temper the desire for strong anti‐administration sentiment, and a shift in policy focus (from social welfare to national security post‐September 11) may undermine opportunities for strategic group uplift."
"5","Overall, Minta makes a strong contribution to the study of descriptive representation. Yet the most notable contribution may be in the application of his framework to future scholarship on minority descriptive representation. The limited hypotheses tested do not capture the richness of the empirical implications of strategic group uplift, and thus a variety of empirical analyses are certain to followup on this important work. In addition, the theory certainly could be applied across levels of representation and venues of advocacy. For both of these reasons, Minta's book will become an important foundational work for new directions in the study of minority descriptive representation."
"6","                        "
"7","ROBERT R. PREUHS"
"8","Metropolitan State University of Denver"
