"","x"
"1","The general thesis presented in Stephen Schulhofer's new book is that the fundamental principles lying at the heart of the Fourth Amendment have been diluted over the past century. The core of the book is a passionate plea for a return to judicial oversight and placing limits on the discretionary powers of law enforcement. In all but rare cases, judges would issue warrants for searches and seizures—and only upon being presented with probable cause that a crime is, was, or will be committed."
"2","Written for a general audience rather than legal scholars, Schulhofer's book does not engage or analyze the voluminous literature that surrounds the issues discussed. Thus, many of the arguments and viewpoints offered are presented as if original to the author. Perhaps they are—or perhaps Schulhofer did not want to burden his readers with too many citations."
"3","In any case, More Essential Than Ever begins with noting that the Fourth Amendment is not simply about keeping places and information secret from the watchful eyes of government officials. The “right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects” is an acknowledgement that individuals have privacy rights—rights to control access to and uses of places, locations, and certain types of information.         "
"4","In chapter 2, Schulhofer surveys the history of the Fourth Amendment, arguing that judicial oversight was understood as the proper remedy for checking the power of government officials. Calling his view “adaptive originalism,” Schulhofer claims that we should focus on the principles and fundamental values protected by the Bill of Rights rather than specific rules tailored to life in the eighteenth century."
"5","In the 1700s, general warrants and writs of assistance where issued that amounted to little more than “fishing expeditions.” Virtually anyone could be required to assist in a search. Furthermore, the official conducting the search had complete discretion as to the duration, location, and purpose of the investigation. All of this ended with the adoption of the Fourth Amendment, or did it?"
"6","Over the next six chapters, Schulhofer examines numerous cases and explains how the principles at the core of the Fourth Amendment have been undermined. We see that current law permits officers to stop motorists for almost any reason and coax or use intimidation to obtain consent to search the vehicle. This is also true of searching bus passengers and their luggage. Moreover, the exclusionary rule—a rule that prohibits using evidence obtained unlawfully—has been diluted in recent years."
"7","In many situations, it is now lawful to for a police officer to stop and frisk someone based solely on “reasonable suspicion” rather than “probable cause.” Reasonable suspicion does not require judicial approval. Oddly, Schulhofer agrees with this exception to probable cause and judicial oversight."
"8","Area warrants based on health or safety needs, for example, allow government officials access to places or locations without suspicion, probable cause, or judicial oversight. Students who participate in after‐school programs can be required to submit to drug tests under direct observation."
"9","Under the “third‐party doctrine” government agents are permitted to subpoena records, simply side‐stepping the Fourth Amendment altogether. Obtaining these information dossiers provides a picture of private activity more profound than anything that could be achieved via direct observation."
"10","Finally, Schulhofer reminds us of how the war on terror post‐September 11 has further eroded Fourth Amendment protections. From covert sneak‐and‐peak warrants issued by secret courts (FISC) to warrantless surveillance of electronic communications initiated from outside the United States, the pattern is clear. At almost every turn, the courts have “increasingly put police convenience above … original Fourth Amendment priorities” (p. 44)."
"11","In general, Schulhofer stands against these trends and provides a compelling case‐based analysis for returning to the principles and values embedded in the Bill of Rights. In closing, two considerations should be highlighted for those who are sympathetic to re‐establishing the core values of protecting individual privacy rights by insisting on probable cause and judicial oversight."
"12","Most of the cases that have led the courts to undermine and marginalize the Fourth Amendment were given impetus by two wars—the war on terror (or promoting security) and the war on some drugs."
"13","The obsession of our leaders to be the world's cop by adopting an expansive and arguably vacuous view of “national interest” has promoted idea that the United States is the world's bully—sticking our nose where it does not belong, funding dictators and then destroying them, and spending billions in the process. It is doubtful whether we would need secret courts, emergency powers, water‐boarding, or drone attacks against unorganized militia in remote villages if our gaze were more firmly fixed on domestic worries."
"14","Probably far worse, however, has been the war on drugs. Imagine how Fourth Amendment jurisprudence would have gone had we adopted a model of harm reduction and education rather than the current war. We might have found incarcerating those with forbidden substances, permitting drug testing of high school students, or no‐knock entering of homes for drug searches unnecessary."
"15","In any case, Schulhofer's More Essential Than Ever: The Fourth Amendment in the Twenty‐First Century invites us to consider a different path. We could choose a different policy—one that promotes liberty, privacy, and security.         "
"16","                        "
"17","ADAM D. MOORE"
"18","University of Washington"
