"","x"
"1","Conspiracy theories have found true believers at all times in all parts of the world, but the United States in particular has a long history of persistent rumors and full‐fledged conspiracy theories spanning from colonial times to the early twenty‐first century. Some scholars have suggested that the ethnic, racial, and religious mix of immigrants stirs anxieties of subversion by alien plotters teaming up with homegrown conspirators, such as Masons, Catholics, Mormons, Jews, Communists, and, most recently, Muslims, who are, according to the birther conspirators, in cahoots with President Barack Obama, allegedly a foreign‐born Muslim. Wars, major man‐made disasters such as the September 11 attacks or the recent Ebola epidemic tend to result in new conspiracy theories."
"2","Scholars from a variety of fields, such as history, political science, psychology, and sociology, have contributed to our knowledge about the history of conspiracy theories, the economic and political conditions that breed these beliefs, and the peculiarities of wide‐ranging conspiracy beliefs. Although scholars as well as the news media reveal a great deal about particular conspiracy theories, we know far less about long‐term frequency trends and even less about the traits that make conspiracy theorists. In a welcome effort to address that knowledge gap, the authors of American Conspiracy Theories utilize three data sets to quantify their analyses and generalize their findings: first, a commissioned survey of 2012 tailored to measure the predisposition of individuals to buy into conspiracy theories; second, letters to the editor referring to conspiracy theories published in the New York Times and Chicago Tribune spanning 121 years from1890 to 2010; and third, about 3,000 relevant Internet items posted from July 2012 to July 2013.         "
"3","The in‐depth analysis of poll data in Chapter 4 produces particularly interesting results. After categorizing respondents based on their answers to specially designed questions as ranking high, medium, or low on the conspiracy predisposition scale, the authors first examine the highly susceptible segment according to gender, race, age, education, ideology, and party identification. The data reveal differences of varying degrees concerning age, education, and race but none with respect to gender. The most noteworthy finding is that “conspiratorial predispositions appear nearly flat across political ideology and partisanship” (p. 89). In the authors' words, “there is not much evidence that either side is significantly more prone to conspiracy theorizing” (p. 93). Although it is perfectly plausible that those identified as susceptible may or may not become conspiracy theorists, the authors criticize contemporary social science research for being preoccupied with conspiratorial beliefs of the political right."
"4","The same chapter contains other thought‐provoking results, among them those concerning attitudes toward political violence in the various susceptibility groups. For example, 20 percent of the top 50 respondents in the high category agreed that “violence is sometimes an acceptable way to express disagreement with the government,” whereas less than 8 percent in the low category thought so (p. 98). This seems to confirm anecdotal evidence that conspiracy theorists are well represented among violent extremists on both the left and the right."
"5","Assuming that letters to the editor reflect the issues of the times they are published in, the researchers identified those referring to conspiracy beliefs and established a revealing time series of conspiracy letters. While it is hardly surprising that conspiracy theories were most prevalent during the 1890s, at the height of antibusiness and antitrust sentiments, and even more so in the 1950s, at the height of Red Scare hysteria, the data contradict the conventional wisdom that conspiracy theories are more numerous in recent times than ever before."
"6","Categorizing Internet items pinpointed by Google Alerts as containing the search word “conspiracy theory,” the authors found that nearly two‐thirds discussed conspiracy theories negatively, merely 19 percent positively. This does not prove that information provided on the Internet is heavily tilted against conspiracy theories; rather, because most proponents of such theories do not perceive and refer to their beliefs as conspiracy theories, their online posts and discussions are not detected by using “conspiracy theory” as a search term."
"7","Altogether, though, this is an innovative book that illuminates our understanding of American conspiracy theories based on empirical evidence. I recommend the book for both undergraduate and graduate courses and will use it in a seminar on social and popular movements and conspiracy theories."
"8","                        "
"9","BRIGITTE L. NACOS"
"10","Columbia University"
