"","x"
"1","Since the 1990s, local communities have come under pressure to help enforce federal immigration law. This phenomenon represents a major shift, both for the federal government's exclusive legal jurisdiction over immigration and for the politics and practices of local policing. Policing Immigrants examines how local communities have been responding. Given the sheer variety of communities involved and a rapidly shifting landscape, it is a formidable and ambitious undertaking.         "
"2","These authors cut across the topic in multiple ways, using multiple methods. They begin with an outstanding history of immigration federalism, tracing the court cases and political shifts that first placed immigration under federal control and, a century later, inspired federal authorities to look to local law enforcement as a “force multiplier,” developing various “federal–local policing partnerships” (p. 27)."
"3","They then examine original surveys of police chiefs and county sheriffs as well as case studies of seven cities to demonstrate how the push for federal–local partnerships ended up producing a complex patchwork of policies within overlapping jurisdictions. Some police departments and county sheriffs adopted policies supportive of their immigrant populations; others embraced a collaborative role with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Perhaps most importantly, a majority adopted no written policy or training for officers regarding interactions with unauthorized immigrants (pp. 48–49)."
"4","One of the key themes across chapters is how the fragmented patchwork of policies leaves a great deal of discretion in the hands of individual officers as they encounter immigrants as suspects, witnesses, or victims. Officers end up making decisions with profound implications for local residents, families, and economies. Because of this discretion, and because overlapping jurisdictions often adopt different policies and practices, immigrants cannot easily decipher what to expect in their encounters with law enforcement. Stories of pretextual stops or deportations initiated by any kind of local officer feed fears among immigrant communities and undermine the trust and cooperation necessary for effective community policing, even by other agencies."
"5","The surveys and case studies inform analysis of what kinds of factors shape how different cities respond to pressures to police immigration. A detailed statistical analysis turns up some counterintuitive results, for instance, finding that cities with high unemployment, crime rates, or growth in the number of immigrants or Latino residents are not more likely to adopt policies enforcing immigration. Instead, official local immigration policing tends to covary with conservative political attitudes among the local population and restrictive policies adopted by local government."
"6","The case studies help flesh out some more complex scenarios under which some local law enforcement opted to prioritize community policing or economic interests over collaboration with ICE. For instance, despite a politically conservative context, neither the police chief nor sheriff in Dodge City, Kansas, used traffic stops or otherwise reported unauthorized immigrants to ICE unless they were actually booked in jail. It would have been bad for business, given the local dependence on two big meatpacking facilities employing 90 percent Latino workers, many of them unauthorized. When immigrants play key roles in the community—as labor but sometimes also as consumers or students—local law enforcement needs to balance community interests with demands for “enforcing the law” (p. 146)."
"7","Despite four cooks in the kitchen, this book is written in consistently crisp, well‐structured prose that will be accessible to students. Readers might wish for more transparency regarding who performed the case study interviews through what forms of contact, and the authors miss opportunities by using their interviews merely as a source of facts. Overall, however, this timely book offers broad insights into the causes, dynamics, and implications of the devolution of immigration policing to local communities."
"8","                        "
"9","KRISTEN HILL MAHER"
"10","San Diego State University"
