"","x"
"1","Dennis Ippolito has produced a wonderful work on the complex issues of debt, deficit, and federal tax policy, complete with historical review, bar none. The work is a detailed compendium that traces our history from the early pattern of solvency and debt retirement to the current deficit‐laden reality and increasingly bitter partisan wrangling in both houses of Congress and between Congress and the president."
"2","Ippolito's pedagogy involves a chronological review of partisan patterns of activity over revenue and spending politics between the White House and Congress. Ippolito takes us into the congressional meeting rooms, the hallway discussions, and gives us an inside look at the consummate deal making that has increasingly marked our fiscal policy tradition from Alexander Hamilton to the Simpson–Bowles Commission. With each succeeding era, the Civil War, World Wars I and II, Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society programs, and on into the realms of modern presidents George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George W, Bush, and Barack Obama, Ippolito's work serves as an expose of who was who and who is who in budget and tax politics over our 240‐year history. Ippolito is, thankfully, careful to avoid pointing fingers or assigning blame to either party, house of Congress, or any one president. One interesting note in this essay is that presidents and legislators of both parties have, at one time or another, held the same positions on tax cuts for business, social spending, and defense policies, and have traded these positions regularly across time. Tax policies once favored by Democrats are now favored by Republicans!"
"3","Several themes recur throughout the book. One is the ever‐present battle between national and state power over which level should fulfill which mission and who should pay for it, that is, the debate of federalism. Another theme that carries over the last 240 years is that of the incessant demand for more government services and benefits. As legislators and presidents decrease taxes or spending in one area, a new demand or need pops up in another, resulting in a “whack‐a‐mole” type of decision making in which one can picture Congress and the president careening from problem to problem trying to put out deficit and spending fires as they go. A third theme explicitly described in the book is that of the decline in Party relationships that has led to a nasty, expectantly hostile series of deals and bargains, or, as was recently seen in 2011 and 2012, over the deficit and the debt ceiling, no deal and no bargain. Not that Party relations in the nineteenth or early twentieth century were full of wedded bliss, but that an atmosphere of instant mistrust and conflict now permeates the arena."
"4","Ippolito's work is not for the uninitiated reader who seeks a quick read on the status of U.S. tax policy and finance. Quite the contrary, this is a sophisticated book. If any fault can be found, it might be its very detailed nature. Facts and details are great, but at points, the author goes forward, then backward, and then forward again—perhaps necessarily but also making it hard to follow. Another omission is the discussion of the ease with which the Federal Reserve operates to increase the U.S. debt. When presidents and Congress know that cheap money is available, they are more likely to spend freely than they would have been had they been forced to seek loans in the regular marketplace. Our financial situation is somewhat skewed by this marriage with the Federal Reserve (which is not part of the government)."
"5","One other empty space in this book is the actions of the public. Obviously, one book cannot meet every need, but politicians propose programs in response to public demand. In tracing our deficit spending, more information on the public mood and demand would round out this encyclopedic work. Whatever one's persuasion, Ippolito's work is worth a read."
"6","                        "
"7","BARBARA L. NEUBY"
"8","Kennesaw State University"
