"","x"
"1","The Progressive Party that nominated Henry Wallace as its presidential candidate for 1948 stands as one of the boldest experiments in third‐party politics. Some historians have depicted Wallace as a heroic leftist, a man who challenged the Cold War drift toward “reaction” and “red‐baiting.” He “spoke out forcefully” for the “common man” against the “stooges” of Wall Street, while politics trended rightwards (p. xi). For others—including anti‐communist liberals—Wallace was a pawn of the Communist Party (CPUSA), following the line of political advisers who took cues from Moscow."
"2","Thomas Devine has written a book that tackles this debate with intelligence and accomplished research. He walks an elegant tightrope, arguing that, yes, the CPUSA followed the Cominform's orders to play hard ball in American politics by forming a third party (sometimes misreading directives) but that there were also independent liberals animated by idealism and that “Wallace himself was not subject to Communist discipline” (p. 34). For sure, Wallace was a victim of sinister advisers, especially Calvin Benham (Beanie) Baldwin, who selected unrepresentative members of labor unions to plead for Wallace to run (Devine points out that non‐communist labor leaders opposed a third party). Wallace's lofty idealism, captured in his pronouncements about the Soviet Union's desire for peace, helped him evade reality and the warnings of other liberals like Eleanor Roosevelt. Thus, Wallace serves as a tragic anti‐hero."
"3","Devine provides a nice background to the presidential election by examining a successful run for Congress by Leo Isacson of the American Labor Party (ALP) in a special election in February 1948. Isacson's victory stoked the fires of third‐party dreamers. But as Devine shows, progressives drew the wrong lessons, ignoring the peculiarities of Isacson's Bronx district and not recognizing how much grassroots infrastructure the ALP had in place."
"4","Meanwhile, as Wallace toughened himself up for political battle, his worst tendencies moved to the fore. This was especially true in his commentary on foreign affairs and his critique of Harry Truman's Cold War policies. Devine shows how Wallace “blamed the Truman administration for the Czech coup” carried out by the USSR in 1948 (p. 109) and lambasted the Marshall Plan—economic aid abroad in hopes of checking the spread of communism—as a Wall Street conspiracy. These arguments did not play well in the court of American public opinion; as Wallace gained exposure, his approval numbers dipped. Devine shows how some of his most‐intelligent advisers, including Rexford Tugwell, abandoned ship, upset by the pro‐Soviet line adopted by the Progressive Party. Nor did the Party create a strong grassroots infrastructure. As one “Progressive activist” remarked, the “united front from below” was a “pipe dream” (p. 220)."
"5","This did not stop Wallace from what many historians—both sympathizers and critics—take as his most‐courageous act: to campaign in the South and attack racism (this during an election year when Dixiecrats stormed the region). Wallace faced angry crowds and death threats. But even this act of courage, for Devine, betrays Wallace's naivete, since the candidate “remained convinced, despite ample evidence to the contrary, that the majority of white southerners shared his views on racial equality.” Or as one journalist put it, “The common man that Henry Wallace is encountering in the South does not conform to Henry's abstract conception” (p. 256)."
"6","The end of the story is brutal: Wallace finishes fourth, behind Dixiecrats, with a meager 2.37 percent showing. Devine's story offers fair warning to leftists who still dream of a third party today. Resisting a tale of conspiracy—that the CPUSA manipulated every Progressive Party activist's every step—Devine offers instead a more‐complicated and ultimately tragic story."
"7","                        "
"8","KEVIN MATTSON"
"9","Ohio University"
