"","x"
"1","Given the manifold difficulties of the early Donald Trump presidency and its unrealized public policy ambitions, the issue of evaluating a president's policy accomplishments has been very much in the news. In Bush on the Home Front (2010), John D. Graham detailed the domestic policy successes and failures of George W. Bush's presidency, and now in Obama on the Home Front, he does the same for Barack Obama's presidency.         "
"2","Graham declines to pass judgment on whether Obama's domestic policy efforts were good or bad for the country and instead focuses only on the extent to which Obama succeeded or failed in his policy goals. The book also presents a nine‐point theory of presidential effectiveness in times of political polarization, which involves outreach, the inclusion of elements to appeal to the base and also to moderates, the use of interest groups, and going public both nationally and locally, among other things. Beyond this theory, the book uses case studies and counterfactual considerations to evaluate Obama's policy performance."
"3","Most of Graham's analysis is made up of seven case studies of Obama's policy efforts, several of which are essentially couplets: the short‐term response to the Great Recession and also long‐term economic planning, Obamacare's legislative journey and also its troubled implementation, efforts at reducing greenhouse gas emissions while also expanding energy production, and immigration reform. There is also a chapter on Democrats’ crushing losses in the 2010 and 2014 midterm elections and their impact on Obama's policy agenda."
"4","Overall, Graham finds that Obama's domestic policy efforts were largely successful, but they came at a great political cost for Democrats; he says that Obama's “strong record of legislative accomplishment” essentially ended with the midterm losses (p. 95). Graham argues that the high political cost of Obama's policy accomplishments might have been reduced if Obama had better dealt with determined political opposition, per his theory."
"5","In terms of the specific policy case studies, Graham contends that Obama's “record on short‐term economic policy was impressive” (p. 67) and that Obamacare “is certainly one of the most significant pieces of legislation enacted by Congress since the 1930s” (p. 136). Regarding energy and the environment, Graham says that “the US‐China agreement was a masterful use of executive power” (p. 233), and he argues that Obama's rhetoric legitimized the growth of fracking “and undermined the anti‐fracking campaigns of several environmental groups” (p. 265). In two of his case studies—on drilling and immigration—Graham finds that Obama made early concessions to try to gain GOP support that was never forthcoming, such that Obama was left with odd policy positions that rendered him the “Driller in Chief” and the “Deporter in Chief.”"
"6","Graham criticizes the Obama administration for a failure to appreciate the importance of good public administration regarding Obamacare's implementation and also immigration. He repeatedly argues that Obama should have employed unilateral executive actions more forcefully and earlier than he did, though with climate policy, Graham says that Obama's use of unilateral actions “illustrates why it is difficult . . . to stop a president who is determined to exercise his executive power” (p. 230)."
"7","Even though Graham served in the George W. Bush administration as the head of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Office of Management and Budget, the book is very evenhanded. The author passes up opportunities to make partisan points, he considers criticisms from across the political spectrum, and he notes Obama's repeated but unsuccessful efforts to reach out to Republicans. The book's organization is sensible and its writing is clear, with most academic references relegated to footnotes. Graham's book will appeal to scholars and students of American political history, the presidency, and public policy."
"8","                        "
"9","GRAHAM G. DODDS"
"10","Concordia University"
