"","x"
"1","Sarah Staszak's thoughtful book powerfully makes the case that there is a complex, multifaceted phenomenon of judicial retrenchment. She takes a historical institutional approach to examining the politics and processes that have scaled back access to the traditional court system. By tracing intersecting and overlapping actors who have influenced the progression of judicial retrenchment, she notes that the animating forces behind retrenchment are far from homogenous."
"2","Some forces, such as the conservative antilitigation agenda, are clearly partisan, but other forces are concerned with protecting the integrity of the judiciary. Thus, rather than a unified and concerted effort, retrenchment has been fueled by both classic partisan politics and the ideology of institutional maintenance. Yet the cumulative effect of these various forces has diminished access to the courts, particularly for civil rights plaintiffs (p. 114)."
"3","Staszak's historical approach carefully illuminates the complicated story of judicial retrenchment. She situates her analysis within the literature on institutional change and supports her thesis with four case studies. The first case study is “Changing the Decision Makers,” which examines the growth of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) practices that empowered nonjudicial actors to resolve legal disputes rather than judges. The ideology of ADR, which sought to channel and filter “minor” disputes, has been co‐opted by forces seeking to decrease access to the courts. The second case study is “Changing the Rules,” which traces the intergovernmental struggle to craft and amend the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. At its core, this struggle was over which branch of government is empowered to establish the rules of the game. Changing the rules of the game for litigation can have a profound impact on the nature of the game. The third case study is “Changing the Venue,” which explores the rise of administrative agency adjudication as a forum for resolving legal and policy disputes outside the courts. The fourth case study, “Changing the Incentives,” reviews efforts to limit judicial remedies or to increase immunities that shield certain entities from liability. Rights may remain, but the remedies are hollow. Staszak argues that restricting incentives to pursue justice in turn restricts access to the courts."
"4","The underlying premise of the book is that a “day in court” is a superior method of rights adjudication. The rights revolution of the last century empowered courts and judges to act as agents for social change. Staszak equates access to courts with access to justice. She acknowledges that this assumption is “complicated”; the romanticized and idealized vision of the court is much debated. Yet she defends the power of the court's ideal and concludes that forces eroding access to the courts are “particularly troubling” (p. 220). In parsing the subtle normative angle, Staszak seems more troubled when access is limited by partisan conservative ideology than when it is motivated by nonpartisan court clog concerns."
"5","Staszak's book makes a number of important contributions to the literature. She tackles technical and procedural topics that are often overlooked in the study of American political development. Viewing her subject through a historical lens, she offers a rich and nuanced account, which will be of interest to those seeking a fuller understanding of the modern political dynamics that limit access to the courts."
"6","Staszak has a strong mastery of history, and the book is well researched and comprehensive in its coverage. Her deft narrative covers a range of topics from arbitration to rules of civil procedure to administrative agencies to attorneys' fees. Her breadth allows her to draw a complex picture of partisan and nonpartisan forces that have contributed to judicial retrenchment. I highly recommend this historical perspective on issues that remain of modern import."
"7","                        "
"8","AMANDA REID"
"9","Florida Coastal School of Law"
