"","x"
"1","This book challenges the existing idea that states are the best providers of security and stability. In this book, Robert Mandel takes a self‐professed “devil's advocate” position in exploring the global shift in security provision from public to private hands—arguing that armed non‐state groups (NSGs) can play a positive role in creating security and stability (p. 12)."
"2","To persuade us to take armed NSGs seriously as providers of security, Mandel uses a multi‐pronged approach. He demonstrates that a shift is underway in global security that entails a decreasing ability of sovereign states to provide stability and security along with increasing demands for stability and an increasing ability of armed NSGs to provide it. He defines armed NSGs (categorizing them into five types) and defines security stability, synthesizing existing approaches to stability and ultimately stripping the concept down to four elements (security authority, public welfare, internal harmony, and external autonomy). Employing 12 cases drawn from different types of armed NSGs, he highlights patterns of how these groups succeed or fail in providing a stable and secure local environment and draws inferences from these patterns about which armed NSGs are most likely to be security enhancing and when."
"3","Mandel achieves his primary goal of getting the reader to rethink the role that armed NSGs are playing in the global arena. Both the case studies and the chapter spent conceptualizing types of armed NSGs demonstrate that not all of the groups are similar and they are not all similarly bad in terms of stability."
"4","Having achieved that goal, Mandel also seeks to provide something of a guide to armed NSGs and to how the global community of policymakers can deal with them. This endeavor is more difficult. While the book provides a great deal of information and well‐thought‐out argumentation, it raises many questions that beg further investigation at minimum."
"5","Mandel focuses on armed NSGs as a potential source of stability, but also names five other relevant actors. It is not clear what is lost analytically by examining only one actor, and one that is likely to emerge only under certain conditions of stability breakdown. Mandel asks us to look beyond states as the only providers of security stability, yet his conceptualization is still rooted in the use of force/monopoly on the use‐of‐force ideas that are so dominant in the state‐centric literature. This harkens back to the existence of multiple sources of authority that pre‐dated the contemporary international system analyzed by Henrik Spruyt in The Sovereign State and Its Competitors, as well as others.         "
"6","The 12 cases are chosen because they represent a “wide range of successful and unsuccessful… effort to achieve security” (p. 8). Mandel acknowledges limitations of the case analysis, but mainly related to the number of cases, and not any other issues with case selection that make generalizability challenging. The cases advance Mandel's primary goal of causing us to rethink the role of armed NSGs, but the lessons from these cases inspire rather than conclusively answer questions about why they emerged in the first place, how they function, their relationship to the populace and the state, and how and when they will be effective in promoting stability."
"7","Mandel concludes by addressing the normative implications of armed NSGs providing security stability, and highlights the dangers of these groups providing stability through coercion. This thoughtful account is an excellent conclusion to this book that forces us to rethink the role of armed NSGs in international politics."
"8","                        "
"9","KATHLEEN GALLAGHER CUNNINGHAM"
"10","University of Maryland"
