"","x"
"1","The study of Central Asian politics is experiencing a mini‐boom for practitioners and scholars alike. These two recent additions make important contributions to this growing field, even as they focus on strikingly different actors, processes, and regional connections."
"2","Charles Buxton provides an overview of the trials and tribulations of civil society organizations (CSOs) in Central Asia, noting their uneven pattern of development and, in the case of Uzbekistan, recent regression. His book distinguishes among various phases (late‐Soviet, transition, state‐building) and is packed with interesting anecdotes and glimpses into these advocacy campaigns. Some are relatively well known, such as the Kazakh Semipalatinsk movement against nuclear contamination and the more‐recent Kyrgyz campaign against the international Highly Indebted Poor Country initiative. Others, such as the Kazakh non‐governmental organizations (NGOs) serving the homeless in the early 1990s, pensioners movements in Kyrgyzstan, and women's community‐based development groups in Tajikistan, are less so, yet the author carefully highlights their modest but important victories for their constituents. Case chapters of NGOs engaged with environmental issues (chap. 4), political rights (chap. 5), and women's issues (chap. 6) provide additional examples, analysis, and political context, while the final chapters consider the international and global dimensions of these campaigns."
"3","Eric McGlinchey explores the dynamics of post‐Soviet state‐building regime survival and patronage politics in the cases of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan. In Kazakhstan (“Dynasty”), an abundance of resources, especially oil revenues, has seemingly fostered political stability under President Nursultan Nazarbayev (the book was published prior to the crackdown on protesting oil workers in the western part of the country), allowing for both the enrichment of the country's elite and for sufficient public investment to ensure the regime's broad support. Lacking the same resource base, the government of Uzbekistan (“Violence”) has proven more predatory and relied more heavily on the coercion wielded by its formidable security services, as occurred during the government's bloody crackdown on protestors in the city of Andijon in May 2005. Kyrgyzstan, labeled as “Chaos,” is perhaps the most interesting of the cases, as it lacks a significant revenue base and features a narrower circle of political elites. Thus, for the author, the small country is not only prone to bouts of recurring political instability and regime collapse, as happened in 2005 and 2010, but it also ensures that the same figures keep returning to positions of power."
"4","Both books also assign importance to enduring Soviet legacies. McGlinchey traces the importance of late‐Soviet regional party politics for post‐independence patrimonial state‐building, noting the instructive exception of Kyrgyzstan, where the elite was purged in 1990; Buxton locates the origins of current NGOs to the less‐well‐known citizens' movements that were active, especially on environmental issues, during the late‐Soviet era."
"5","In terms of their focus, approach, and sensibilities, the books could not be more different. McGlinchey writes as a detached scholar, dissecting how political elites wield patronage and secure loyalty. Buxton is a committed practitioner who places Central Asia's CSO campaigns front and center in the region's political evolution, from the jarring economic dislocation of the immediate post‐Soviet “transition” to the new more‐politicized environment following the so‐called Colored Revolutions. While McGlinchey focuses almost exclusively on the domestic political environment, Buxton notes the international and regional political context, though perhaps he even underestimates the strength of the headwinds brought by geopolitical competition in the 2000s and Moscow and Beijing's backlash against the alleged “foreign influence” of externally supported NGOs."
"6","Methodologically, McGlinchey employs a rational‐choice model, a variant of selectorate theory, that emphasizes elite strategic interaction and calculations about the expected utility of political defection to explain the evolution of the three Central Asian regimes. Buxton draws upon the assumption that civil society can be politically transformational and then assesses its positive impact, and relationship with international donors, over a broad range of issues, settings, and countries. The former is decidedly pessimistic, even cynical, about the potential for achieving lasting democratic breakthroughs in the region, while the latter already sees evidence of progress and successful civic engagement, especially in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan."
"7","Instructively, both approaches explain important aspects of Kyrgyzstan's comparatively volatile politics. For McGlinchey, Kyrgyz politics draws on a narrow circle of elites, forcing Kyrgyz power‐brokers to invest more heavily in keeping their coalition partners happy, but from a limited pot of money. During the 1990s, Askar Akayevich Akayev extracted sufficient revenues to spread among these circles from foreign donors who were eager to support the Kyrgyz President's rhetorical commitment to liberalization. But as international aid dried up these external revenues, after the events of September 11th, they were replaced by payments from the United States for the operation and service contracts of its air base at Manas airport. Unlike foreign aid, these security‐related revenues narrowly benefitted the President, his family, and inner circle, eventually generating the dissatisfaction among the extended network of elites that led to Akayev's removal in the Tulip Revolution of 2005."
"8","Buxton implicitly acknowledges McGlinchey's insight when he notes, “Akayev's attempt to please all and sundry failed. There were too many stakeholders to soothe, too many promises to keep” (p. 75). But he notes that the state proved more brittle than assumed and citizens' movements far more active in regular politics. CSOs campaigned for political rights and media freedom and against institutionalized corruption, forging pragmatic coalitions with thinly institutionalized parties and helping to mobilize protests. Both of these perspectives also capture important elements of Kyrgyzstan's “second revolution” that ousted the increasingly autocratic and kleptocratic Kurmanbek Bakiyev from office in April 2010, ushering in Bishkek's latest political experiment in parliamentary democracy."
"9","As these books suggest, the study of both elite politics and social movements is indispensible for understanding Central Asia's emerging political development, though the patrimonial character of the region's political machines and its rapidly changing external context lend it a distinct flavor. These works are important representatives of the explanatory power of each approach."
"10","                        "
"11","ALEX COOLEY"
"12","Barnard College"
