"","x"
"1","The Vietnam War has cast a long and enduring shadow over the U.S. Army. In this study of how the U.S. Army conceptualized the defeat in Vietnam and then reimagined counterinsurgency doctrine in later decades, David Fitzgerald has unpacked the intellectual framework underpinning the shadow wars of the 1980s and 1990s and the more‐recent military ventures in Iraq and Afghanistan. Despite the desire to bury the ghosts of Vietnam, they continue to haunt the American military, with intense and unresolved debates over why the war was lost and what lessons should be drawn from that defeat."
"2","During and after the war in Vietnam, Army officers hotly disputed if improved counterinsurgency methods had any impact on the conflict, and whether the thesis that General Creighton Abrams introduced a “better war” after the 1968 Tet Offensive was merely a chimera that hid a darker reality that the war was unwinnable from the beginning. These arguments remained unresolved, for after its withdrawal from Vietnam, the U.S. Army turned its attention to preparing to fight the Red Army in Europe and eschewed involvement in messy counterinsurgency wars in the Third World. Despite sending advisers to El Salvador to assist in counterinsurgency operations, conducting peacekeeping missions in the Balkans, and executing a plethora of other “low‐intensity conflict” missions or “operations other than war,” the Army as an institution refused to embrace any missions other than conventional war fighting against the armed forces of a competitor nation‐state. In this vein, the Army became very good at learning how to forget the lessons of its greatest defeat, other than to maintain that the primary lesson was to not get involved in such conflicts in the first place without defined goals, overwhelming force, and a clearly delineated exit strategy."
"3","The intellectual struggle over Vietnam's historical narrative has significantly affected the course of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan in the past decade. The conduct of these wars has gravitated among emphases on the killing and capturing of insurgents (without the attendant Vietnam‐era body count), the transition of security responsibilities to local security forces, and the protection of the Iraqi and Afghan people. In both conflicts, the U.S. military proceeded to repeat many of the mistakes made in Vietnam four decades earlier, and then rediscovered the hard truths of counterinsurgency that it had desperately tried to bury in the 1970s."
"4","Fitzgerald argues that those truths are malleable, changing over time to meet perceived organizational needs. In this sense, his book is not a primer on the lessons of Vietnam, but a study in the evolution of those lessons and how the U.S. military has integrated them into its doctrine and operations, how they influenced the Army's organizational culture, and how, in turn, the Army's culture impacted the narrative of past wars to shape lessons learned to support current policy. In the hands of the U.S. military, history itself became a flexible tool that was used not just to frame problems, but to constrain solutions to them as well."
"5","As Fitzgerald contends, the arguments over the lessons of Vietnam and their ultimate impact on the U.S. Army are still uncertain. What is certain is that the memories and lessons of Vietnam will continue to color the U.S. Army's organizational culture well into the future. This book is highly recommended reading for the national security policy community, military officers, and those who are interested in understanding the evolution of U.S. Army counterinsurgency doctrine in the last half century."
"6","                        "
"7","PETER R. MANSOOR"
"8","The Ohio State University"
