"","x"
"1","As the authors write: “If you are a practitioner, we will arm you with tools and techniques designed to combat fraud, waste, abuse, and corruption. If you are a student of government—but more importantly, if you care about the quality and integrity of government—we aim to provide you with a story of the good and the bad of current oversight, with an eye to improving our government” (p. 2)."
"2","What makes this book valuable is its in‐depth analysis, complete with true stories, of legislative and executive oversight efforts. It studies oversight at the national, state, and local levels of government; the role of the press and newer social media; and public interest and non‐governmental efforts to hold government officials and agencies accountable."
"3","In their recounting of the case of Congresswoman Liz Holtzman's efforts to curb abuse in the Summer Food Services Program for Children, they list 14 steps in the investigation process. In another chapter, they look at state comptrollers, auditors, and attorneys general in their roles as government watchdogs. Few other books consider these state officials in their accounts of oversight."
"4","The authors discuss the reasons that local governments are generally unable to perform the watchdog function effectively. They also devote a chapter to the difficulty of police misconduct investigations and why they take years and considerable resources to achieve any success. It is the range of analysis that makes the book comprehensive and valuable. We simply know too little about the watchdog function and there are too few analyses of what makes for successful efforts and failures."
"5","The authors end with the hope that their book will “become part of a conversation about how we can do more and better at the work of oversight at all levels of government. We think that is an important conversation in our nation's history because so much is at stake” (p. 251). This is, indeed, an important conversation that we need to have and to which social scientists and practitioners need to contribute. Only one in 10 Americans trusts the federal government to do the right thing most or all of the time. Approval of state and local governments is even less in many parts of the country. The authors maintain, as do many others, that without effective oversight, we cannot have effective governance and that unless corruption is curbed, we undermine our nation's economic vitality."
"6","They provide an interesting argument that when local government corruption declined in New York City, the city prospered. It is up to social scientists to test such assertions more broadly."
"7","Still, as the authors recognize, oversight remains more of an art than a science. But it is an art that requires more research and analysis if it is to be practiced successfully."
"8","                        "
"9","DICK SIMPSON"
"10","University of Illinois at Chicago"
