"","x"
"1","This book makes an important contribution to our understanding of the complex “imaginations” that ordinary citizens bring to their involvement in public life, as innovative for its content as for the way in which the book was researched and written. As trust in government has declined, many scholars have documented the shift away from traditional, electoral forms of participation in public life. Yet few have provided the kind of rich, nuanced look at the ways in which ordinary people continue to work to improve their communities. This ethnographic account of citizen involvement in Providence, Rhode Island, provides just that. The authors map the distinct theories of change in public life that people bring to the table, showing how these “civic imaginations” shape the choices they make about why and how to get involved."
"2","The authors take as their starting point the observation that even as many people disavow “politics,” they are continually looking forward to identify ways to improve their society. As people think prospectively about what their worlds could be and take action to realize that vision, they engage in a process of meaning making that the authors describe with their concept of “civic imagination.” These civic imaginations give meaning to the public work that people do by imbuing it with purpose and value. Why is it important to take action? The kinds of purpose and value that people identify also shape the strategies they use to enact their visions and, in essence, shape what many practitioners call their theory of change. What is the best way to achieve the change I want?"
"3","Through their ethnography of civic life in Providence, the authors identify three primary civic imaginations: those who focus primarily on power and privilege, those who focus on building community solidarity, and those whose primary focus is on solving problems. Through engaging narratives drawn from the seven field sites where the authors conducted their research, the authors describe how these imaginations form a motivating basis for the public work that people undertake, but also create blind spots that can limit their ability to achieve their goals."
"4","Any review of this book would be remiss to leave out discussion of the inventive approach the research team used to structure their own work. In an effort to live the principles of democracy they were studying, the team sought to avoid traditional hierarchies between the principal investigator and the research assistants and instead tried to structure their work with as much egalitarianism as possible. They called their work “Project” and engaged another ethnographer, Tatiana Andia, to observe and document their process (described in an article by Andia in a methodological appendix). To ensure that Project would be a collective endeavor, instead of simply the sum of five individual processes, they set up structures to ensure that they could learn together, jointly writing field notes, articles, and manuscripts, and engaging actors from their field sites in their analysis. The result, they argue, was a collective ethnography that was richer than an ethnography governed by one lens or disciplinary approach could have been."
"5","In sum, this book is an engaging, accessible description of civic life during one year in one town in America that helps us better understand this particular historical moment and, in doing so, better understand the forces that broadly shape participation in public life. Political scientists do not pay enough attention to the moral commitments and values that people bring to political behavior; this book is an important contribution showing how it works and why it matters."
"6","                        "
"7","HAHRIE HAN"
"8","Wellesley College"
