"","x"
"1","Natasha Hamilton‐Hart offers a provocative book that affirms and challenges the status of the United States in Southeast Asia. It affirms by detailing broadly held elite conceptualizations of the stabilizing role of the United States in Southeast Asia. But it also challenges by questioning the foundations of those beliefs—especially the assumption that the geopolitical justifications, domestic benefits, and “national interests” associated with the United States are uncontroversial and clear. Rather, the “origins of [pro‐U.S.] alignment” of the six Southeast Asian states in question were “solidly domestic” (p. 87) and highly contingent—contingent especially on early domestic power struggles, struggles in which Washington played “active leader,” “cheerleader,” and “paymaster” (chap. 3). Moreover, the persistent dominance of Southeast Asia's early victors (and marginalization of oppositional voices) has practically ensured that Southeast Asian regime interests have “neatly dovetailed” with U.S. economic and geopolitical priorities ever since. Further, an “institutional infrastructure,” “a structure of economic dependence,” “history lessons,” and “information environments” make it “exceptionally difficult” to change U.S.‐oriented strategies (pp. 24, 25). At the same time, Hamilton‐Hart also suggests vulnerabilities, especially with changing political economies of alignment, new ruling elites, and the entrance of post‐Cold War generations into policy circles."
"2","Hamilton‐Hart's argument goes beyond familiar arguments about the utilitarian relationship between domestic regime interests and foreign policy alignments. Her argument is also that states' pro‐U.S. orientations have been supported by much national myth making—“history lessons” told in justification of choices made, elite interests subsequently institutionalized, and structures of power and dependence that still mostly prevail. Ultimately, the “facts,” “history,” and “evidence” cited in support of pro‐U.S. orientations were systematically biased in ways that served the ruling elite (chap. 4). They also comprise the “soft illusions” that interplay with the “hard [mostly elite] interests” of her book's title. Foreign policy professionals—with their personal U.S. ties and reliance on U.S.‐based news—offer “expertise” that additionally supports official pro‐U.S. narratives. Hamilton‐Hart's self‐described task is not about the empirical validity of beliefs but is instead about considering where pro‐U.S. beliefs come from and how and why they have been as durable as they have been."
"3","Drawing insights from cognitive psychology, Hamilton‐Hart makes a particular contribution to the literature on ideas and beliefs. Where others focus on cost–benefit calculations, logical reasoning, or persuasive argument, Hamilton‐Hart focuses instead on the propagation of beliefs via unthinking or unreflective actions—for example, cognitive shortcuts, “motives for closure,” and routine “work tasks” (pp. 32–35). Further, dominant ideas are additionally supported by “asymmetrical” information environments biased by groupthink dynamics and social pressures on contrarians to conform (or exit); and cognitive adaptations, for example, “scanning bias,” emotion, and affect where the “US as benign hegemon” offers the dominant heuristic to manage uncertainty and information overload. All this contributes to the taken‐for‐granted claims undergirding states' U.S.‐oriented interests and preferences."
"4","If there is a criticism, it is that the argument may, at times, stack the deck too much. For example, Indonesia and Malaysia—two states especially associated with national autonomy principles—are assessed to be “true believers” of a benign United States (p. 13). The question here is not these states' pro‐U.S. inclinations (Hamilton‐Hart's extensive interviews show that such inclinations are quite pronounced) but instead whether those inclinations so automatically prevail such that autonomy principles become little more than instrumental tools, pieces of self‐deception, or domestic constraints to be overcome in pursuit of pro‐U.S. policies (for example, pp. 64, 164, 115), rather than principles that might legitimately compete or coexist (albeit under constrained conditions). Similarly, the book references some “vigorous debate” and nuanced elite commentary, which suggests that for all the pressures to conform and all the information bias, foreign policy elites are nevertheless able to critique and reflect upon established positions. Yet such moments are dismissed as abnormal or insignificant, rather than considering how they might be (for example) part of larger historical efforts to come to terms with their U.S. patron in the face of domestic, economic, and geopolitical change and constraint. Still, none of this should detract from the fact that Hamilton‐Hart has offered a compelling and provocative argument about U.S.–Southeast Asia relations. And while the conclusions drawn may be difficult to test (p. 193), the book's value lies in its alternative interpretation to official—and too often, unquestioned—Southeast Asian (and U.S.) narratives about the need for U.S. alignment. In this, she has given students, scholars, and practitioners of Southeast Asian comparative political economy, foreign policy, and international relations much food for thought."
"5","                        "
"6","ALICE BA"
"7","University of Delaware"
