"","x"
"1","If you asked 100 people to define “democracy,” you might receive 100 different answers. The bulk of those answers, however, would likely make some reference to laws or institutions such as popular elections, guaranteed civil liberties, or limits on government power. In his book, Andrew J. Perrin instead adopts a sociological approach and reminds the reader that democratic culture (the norms and practices that citizens establish for interacting with one another and their government) is an equally significant prerequisite for a healthy democracy."
"2","The importance of democratic values and civil society is well documented in the political science scholarly literature, but Perrin does a tremendous service by breaking down a vast amount of information on democratic theory and practice into a digestible meal for interested readers. His central argument is that the cultural and social dynamics of democratic citizenship in the United States are vitally important and ignored at our own peril. The book begins with a far‐reaching historical overview of voting, civil society, and citizenship that serves as a useful primer for beginning to think about democratic culture. It then moves to a discussion of how citizens interact within our democracy by formulating political opinions and sharing those opinions with other citizens and their elected officials."
"3","Throughout the book, Perrin highlights a tension in thinking about democratic culture. Specifically, many conceptions of citizenship center on the individual by focusing on rights and liberties. In contrast, Perrin argues that citizenship is “an eminently social thing: even when it's done individually, it expresses and builds a connection with the public” (p. 79). Therefore, democracy is not simply about individual self‐actualization but also about a core set of shared values that govern the public sphere and allow citizens to interact with one another. These include the ability for people to speak in public, for others to listen, and for those interactions to focus on the ideas under debate instead of the persons who are forwarding them. In order for these interactions to occur, citizens require “access to disagreement” (p. 93). In Perrin's view, one lamentable feature of our current political discourse is that an increasingly segmented media climate allows citizens, if they wish, to avoid disagreement by accessing only ideas they already agree with (which promotes “bonding” publics as opposed to “bridging” publics)."
"4","The book then shifts from discussing how citizens form and communicate opinions to evaluating how well, or poorly, elected officials represent those opinions in the policymaking process. One important insight Perrin emphasizes is that this process is a two‐way street; citizens' opinions not only influence policy, policy also influences citizens' opinions (through policy feedback). Here Perrin also levies a mild critique at political representation as it is usually conceived by political scientists (with its focus on the congruence between public opinion, as measured through discrete choice polling questions, and government policies) by pointing out that modern polling shapes public opinion choices just as much as it measures them. As Perrin puts it, polling “causes people to think in particular ways by teaching them what kinds of questions and answers are most appropriate” (p. 130)."
"5","Ultimately, the book calls for a more textured view of democracy that encourages an agnostic approach to citizenship “with everyone invited and encouraged to speak the ideas they choose in the form and style that best fits them” (p. 183). This is practiced by citizens being frank and honest with one another, disagreeing without being disagreeable. It is an ambitious vision of democracy that could benefit from an even further refinement (aided by additional specific examples) of how it could be accomplished amid growing political polarization and declining trust in government. This minor criticism aside, however, I recommend this book to readers from all different backgrounds and levels of expertise who are interested in thinking seriously about how the cultural and social dynamics of citizenship remain vital to the future of American democracy."
"6","                        "
"7","PATRICK FLAVIN"
"8","Baylor University"
