"","x"
"1","We have in this chronicle an insider's account of the presidential administration that began in January 1981. Chase Untermeyer, present at the creation, served in the office of Vice‐President George Herbert Walker Bush and throughout kept lengthy personal diary accounts of the day‐to‐day activities over 26 months. A mere tenth of that record finds its way into the narrative, and Untermeyer avows that the book “does not pretend to be great history” (p. xii). It offers instead the stuff of footnotes—insights on quotidian affairs, the quotable quips, addenda on known and familiar personalities, and, generally, aspects of the Vice‐President's business that lie between the headlines."
"2","Readers who can suspend their interest in policymaking and the grand issues that engage all presidential administrations may still enjoy the ride here, and learn from it. And quite a ride it is. We follow the VP around the world–to England, Germany, and other European stops, to Guam and the Philippines, to China and Japan, Israel and Saudi Arabia, Australia, and New Zealand. Untermeyer chose the sites. We go also to Africa (and have a “Conradian” ride up the Congo to visit President Mobutu of Zaire). Another trek takes us to the Vatican. Politics usually determines the locations, but death also factors. Bush attended many funerals. “You die, I fly,” was his wry comment. And, in fact, the visit that he and his party made to Moscow for the funeral of Leonid Brezhnev in November 1982 yields an intriguing report. We have many trips around the United States, too, of course. We follow Bush to the Super Bowl and see him wave the green‐and‐white flag at the NASCAR 500 race. Politics mixes with ceremony."
"3","Untermeyer's account does not altogether lack for political instruction, however. One subject readers might find especially informative; today when conservatives all over revere thename of Ronald Reagan and genuflect at this idol so dear to their memory, Untermeyer shows us that Reagan, and Bush especially, had a host of troubles with the “ultra right.” Bush called them “nuts” (p. 30). From Howard Phillips of Conservative Cause, to Richard Viguerie, to Paul Weyrich, to Bob Jones and Jerry Falwell in the religious right, and to Jack Kemp, the anti‐tax crusader in the Republican Party itself, a stream of verbal attacks targeted the administration, and Bush especially. Untermeyer observes with amusement how Reagan's later proposal for a tax increase goes unnoticed by soi‐disant conservatives today."
"4","In the book's Afterword, Untermeyer tells us why “things went right.” He simply assumes that they did go right. We hear nothing from Untermeyer about massive federal deficits under Reagan or of Iran‐Contra, no more than we hear today about them from zealous conservatives. The factors that the author posits as the ingredients of success amount to this tidy list; “optimism”; “clarity of purpose”; “boldness”; “humor”; “willingness to work across the aisle”; “willingness to compromise”; “a belief in competence”; and “modesty.” It more approximates the Boy Scout Code than it does a policy guideline. But even though the book in its conclusion elides politics and policy, it leaves us with a useful lesson. Untermeyer at the beginning of his journalistic record describes himself as a conservative Republican politician from Texas. He has nonetheless a profound appreciation for public service and finds a joy in doing the good work of government. Throughout, he conveys the sense of “awe and privilege” (p. 10) that he finds in the routines of his office. How welcome are these thoughts amid the incessant anti‐statist screeds that propel today's Republican Party. And Untermeyer knows that government is the art of the possible. He has no truck for the uncompromising, ideological purists he sees in both parties today."
"5","                        "
"6","J. DAVID HOEVELER"
"7","University of Wisconsin‐Milwaukee"
