"","x"
"1","Recent decades have seen a rise in the production of hydrocarbons (oil and gas) in Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. The motivating observation of Oil Sparks in the Amazon is that this rise has coincided with an increase in the frequency of “local conflicts.” These conflicts are “geographically limited to the boundaries of the oil or gas project that originally sparks them, and they involve Indigenous People, and sometimes farming communities living in the area” (p. 5–6). Patricia I. Vásquez's take on this phenomenon is policy oriented, with a focus on strategies to mitigate local hydrocarbons conflicts in the future.         "
"2","The major contribution of the book arises from the author's clear command of the facts of her case studies. The detailed descriptions of events make for a useful primer on the issues of hydrocarbons and conflict in the region. With a focus on the Amazonian areas of Ecuador, Colombia, and Peru, the first chapter provides a helpful overview of the stakeholders in each case while also summarizing the global forces at play. The second chapter presents a brief history of the indigenous peoples, their struggle for rights in the case countries, and the lingering disparities between these groups and nonindigenous populations. The third chapter examines the general structural factors underlying local conflicts, while the fourth covers specific triggers or aggravating factors for the case conflicts of interest. These chapters present a wealth of information about the legislative, legal, and local organizational contexts of the cases."
"3","One area that lacks detail is the method of recruiting interview subjects. Vásquez does not reveal her subjects' names in the interest of privacy and journalistic ethics (p. 7), which is fitting given her sensitive subject matter. However, some clarification on how the interviewees were identified or the settings in which the interviews were collected would be appropriate in order to allow for a discussion of potential selection bias in the stories being told."
"4","More concerning are the causal inferences drawn from this study. The author posits that grievances about the negative externalities of hydrocarbon extraction, structural socioeconomic disparities between ethnic groups (particularly regarding land and subsoil ownership), and constraints on the efficacy of governance mechanisms for settling redistribution disputes (particularly at the subnational level or in the legal framework) have led to local conflicts. However, the author only examines cases in which conflicts have occurred. Are there locations with the same negative externalities, disparities, and constraints but where hydrocarbons extraction has been conducted without struggle? If so, these examples would cast doubt on the causal nature of the factors being presented."
"5","A greater engagement with theory would strengthen the causal claims. The author cites Paul Collier's work on the resource curse and civil war as a motivating factor for this study (p. xv), but this connection is not expanded on. I wanted to see more discussion of how the author's findings conform to or differ from what would have been expected given prior research and theorizing. A number of literature streams could have been used as theoretical frames, including those on norms diffusion, social mobilization, and the activation of ascriptive characteristics for sociopolitical gain."
"6","One particularly interesting finding is that institutions and organizations can mitigate conflict, especially government agencies such as Peru's Office of the Ombudsman. This fits with the observations of scholars that the effect of the “resource curse” is conditional on institutional arrangements. Vásquez's book, with its attention to local‐level details of conflict, suggests that the context of hydrocarbons extraction may matter in explaining contentious outcomes; a better research design and connection to theory would further strengthen the claims."
"7","                        "
"8","NORA WEBB WILLIAMS"
"9","University of Washington"
