"","x"
"1","This straightforward book presents the election of 1948 not just as a personal triumph for Harry Truman but also as a watershed victory for the Democrats in Congress more broadly. Andrew Busch argues that the election of 1948 is “best seen as an affirmation of the New Deal, of containment, and of a halting progress on civil rights” (p. ix), but he also provides a useful reading of the meaning of the election in terms of questions about the “durability or the vulnerability of the New Deal coalition” (p. ix). He argues that the election was a strong endorsement of anti‐communism and containment as a durable bipartisan approach to the Cold War, and that the challenge of Henry Wallace “pulled Communists out of the Democratic Party” (p. 215)."
"2","The parties were sharply divided internally by the dominant political issues of the day in both domestic and foreign policies. The first section of the book looks at the context for the election in this tumultuous postwar period, with an emphasis on the economic challenges, political conflicts, and global instabilities of the era. But Busch notes that fundamentally, the election “was most immediately a political event taking place in a political and partisan context” (pp. 16–17). This context included Republican victories in 1946 and especially the ideological and regional divisions that had appeared in both parties and that would come to define the politics of the coming era."
"3","Busch concentrates on the nomination process and on the congressional races and their relationship to Truman's victory almost as much as on the election campaign itself. A strength of this book is the political analysis focused on these national and regional trends and interests. This analysis carries through the section of the book that grapples with the nomination process that produced a set of “tools and strategies that had been crucial for several decades” (p. 25). In grappling with the many challenges of the new postwar world, the parties relied on the machinery and issues that had long been in play to define themselves and to garner support. The election of 1948 also marked the end of an era. Busch points out that Truman's victory was possible in part because “the medium of television was not well suited to the ‘hot’ rhetoric he regularly employed on the campaign trail” (p. 154)."
"4","Four chapters cover various preliminary phases of the nominations and the campaign in careful detail while still maintaining a brisk narrative. Busch handles the challenge of Wallace within the context of labor politics and foreign relations, and provides a clear account of the challenges produced by the Southern Democratic revolt over civil rights. The Republican nomination process is handled with similar thoroughness. The account of the election proper in chapter 5 is appropriately the heart of the book, and Busch grants sufficient attention to uncoiling the surprising results by breaking down the interests of various voting groups. Busch argues for “the importance of Truman's small‐town victory” (p. 160) and categorizes “the special‐interest appeals at the core of his campaign (p. 202) on farm and labor issues and the Democratic increase in the African‐American and Jewish votes."
"5","This book enters a crowded field of works focusing specifically on the 1948 election, not to mention the voluminous literature on Truman and on the political implications of various aspects of the early postwar period. It makes a clear and well‐researched contribution, especially in its concluding discussion of interpretations and legacies. Concise and straightforward, this book is light enough on the scholarly apparatus (with very limited endnotes and a bibliographic essay) to be used in a class."
"6","                        "
"7","DANIEL S. MARGOLIES"
"8","Virginia Wesleyan College"
