"","x"
"1","Environmental sociologist Liam Downey reminds us of the following worldwide social and environmental crises: “economic underdevelopment, widespread poverty and hunger, lack of safe drinking water for one‐sixth of the world's population, deforestation, desertification, rapidly increasing levels of pollution and waste, dramatic declines in biodiversity and soil fertility, and climate change” (p. 1). Four popular explanations of these crises, Downey maintains, obscure our ability to recognize how the crises are systematically interconnected to social relations of inequality and power that may be susceptible to change by egalitarian movements for democracy and justice."
"2","First, mainstream environmentalists narrowly address environmental issues in a piecemeal fashion through reforming “specific [environmental] laws, regulations, treaties, organizations, and behaviors” (p. 3). Second, “sovereign consumer” advocates overestimate the extent to which strategic changes in consumption practices make businesses, markets, and public policies more environmentally friendly. Third, environmental economists argue that increasing market reforms, decreasing ineffective government interventions, and expanding the breadth of social and environmental costs included in the valuation of goods and services will help address the crisis situation. Somewhat sympathetic to this position, Downey still makes a convincing argument that environmental economists generally miss the central role that social inequality, power, and corporate interests play in shaping current social and environmental crises."
"3","Next, Downey critiques two strands of macrostructural environmental sociology that focus primarily on the harmful effects of capitalism. Treadmill of production theory, typically a nation‐state framework, argues that powerful capitalist interests maximize profits through intense natural resource extraction, externalizing the costs of production onto others, and maintaining the dependence of labor and government on capitalist enterprises for jobs and tax revenues. Ecologically oriented world systems theories argue that global inequalities and environmental problems are caused by “core nations’ current and historical exploitation of periphery and semi‐periphery nations’ labor power and natural resource wealth” (p. 43). This, in turn, allows politically and economically powerful core nations to maintain their superior status, subordinate semi‐periphery nations, and keep periphery nations poor, underdeveloped, weak, and dependent."
"4","While insightful, Downey argues that extant macrostructural environmental sociological theories have a limited view of “social structure” beyond the set of relations characteristic of capitalism. Instead, he understands social structure broadly as an organizational, institutional, and network dynamic that fundamentally influences social outcomes and the thoughts, behaviors, opportunities, and choices of individuals and groups. From this standpoint, Downey uses power structure theory to bring the level of abstraction of macrostructural environmental sociology to a middle‐range “Inequality, Democracy, and Environment” (IDE) theoretical model. This model centers on how structures such as undemocratic institutions, elite‐controlled organizational networks, and the political, economic, and legal infrastructure that facilitates capital accumulation allow economic, political, military, and ideological elites “to achieve socially and environmentally harmful goals in the face of resistance from others” (p. 5)."
"5","Downey finds support for various components of the IDE model in case studies of U.S.‐dominated global institutions from the end of World War II to the George W. Bush administration in the arenas of globalization, agriculture, mining, and U.S. energy and military policy. Extensive support for this model is found in Chapter 3 on the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF). The book is most likely accessible to educated publics, policymakers, professional researchers, and graduate students. Nonetheless, it is very well written. More importantly, it illuminates the centrality of elite‐controlled mechanisms of “armed violence, oligopoly and oligopsony power, free trade agreements, property rights protections, policy planning networks, political risk insurance, the news media, international debt, structural adjustment, and decision making rules at the World Bank, IMF, and World Trade Organization” (p. 11) in consistently contributing to contemporary social and environmental crises within the United States and abroad."
"6","                        "
"7","RAOUL S. LIÉVANOS"
"8","University of Oregon"
