"","x"
"1","The current literature on bureaucracies sorely lacks a rigorous examination of the international organizations. Antonis Ellinas and Ezra Suleiman do well in filling this gap through their look into the motivations and workings of the European Commission using theory and ample empirical evidence. They argue that cultural coherence is the most‐critical factor affecting the Commission's autonomy, even though the current environment produces challenges to its legitimacy. They support their arguments using survey data of a large number of top civil servants."
"2","The authors develop their main arguments using the studies of national bureaucracies and then note why international organizations may require special attention. National bureaucracies sustain their autonomy through legitimacy in areas like legal authority, technical expertise, and/or functional need. However, international organizations have difficulty in sustaining autonomy, even though they may have one or more of the three factors. Such organizations have a unique problem of legitimacy because member countries often use international organizations as convenient explanations for their domestic problems. As the authors note, national politicians generally do not lose votes by blaming international bureaucrats. It therefore becomes important to explain why international bureaucracies, like the European Commission, can retain agency and autonomy."
"3","The authors point to the Commission's common culture, centered on a strong sense of mission as the key factor in sustaining autonomy. The unity that the common culture produces gives the civil servants the ability to successfully meet the challenges to their autonomy. This factor is strong enough to guard against legitimacy challenges not only from the “multicephalous” oversight structure but also from their reforms. The top‐level civil servants have a strong belief in the process of European integration and view themselves as the custodians of a new Europe. This common culture has some heterogeneity when individual civil servants focus on specific policy missions of their Directorate‐General. Nonetheless, the specifics of the policy missions do not seem to undermine the overall culture. Their culture exists in a political environment that often challenges the Commission's legitimacy. The authors describe the use of the Commission's “multiple political masters”' (College of Commissioners, European Parliament, and Council of Ministers) oversight powers as a means to focus attention on the bureaucracy."
"4","The authors also outline the unsuccessful attempts to limit autonomy through reform. One attempt was the expansion of parliamentary power and oversight. However, the expansion put the Parliament in oversight competition with the other “political masters” and could not shake the common culture's unity. Although the change in the governing architecture harmed the Commission's legitimacy, it did not harm its autonomy. Another attempt was the Kinnock reforms, which may have actually helped in promoting greater autonomy."
"5","The arguments were tested by an impressive survey of nearly 200 top Commission bureaucrats that includes a fair distribution across many Directorate‐General offices. The response rate of this survey is quite high and allows us to accept the reliability of the investigation. The authors asked the right questions in multiple areas that correctly test their propositions. It is also interesting to note that the survey came during the great debate over the Constitution Treaty and the negative outcome in France and the Netherlands, which the authors address and tie into their conclusions."
"6","The book will appeal to experts and novices of European bureaucratic political analysis. It provides rich context, but not overwhelming information, for those attempting to get a first or second look at the inner workings of the Commission and its recent experiences. It provides the expert a strong empirical examination in understanding the sustained influence of the European bureaucracy and how it will be able to weather current and future crises. It will be interesting to see if the common culture will continue as the new member countries fill the bureaucratic ranks and the institution ages."
"7","                        "
"8","GASPARE M. GENNA"
"9","The University of Texas at El Paso"
