"","x"
"1","This book is a handy and insightful compendium of information about third parties in American politics. David Gillespie chronicles the history of these minor parties from the early nineteenth century until today. For each historical period, he describes the main minor parties and often weaves in profiles of individuals like Theodore Roosevelt and Robert La Follette, who played key roles in leading these insurgent efforts. Individual chapters also analyze the impact of doctrinal parties like the Socialists and Communists, and minor parties that were primarily active on the state and local level."
"2","Political scientists who specialize in political parties would probably find little new in this book. Students and the general public, however, could certainly profit from reading it. And the time is certainly right for a book about third parties. Many people are increasingly disenchanted with the Republicans and the Democrats. A recent poll found a record 40 percent of Americans now claiming to be independents. And two‐thirds say they would like to see other parties challenging the two major ones in elections. These dissatisfied citizens could learn a great deal from this book about the large number and wide variety of minor parties in our history and their role in introducing many innovative policy ideas."
"3","One particularly informative chapter summarizes the many ways in which the two major parties conspire to make life difficult for third parties. They have passed restrictive ballot access laws in many states that make it arduous and expensive for third parties to get their candidates on the ballot. The major parties also work hard to prevent minor‐party candidates from participating in campaign debates. More importantly, Gillespie also puts a lot of blame on our single‐member district, winner‐take‐all voting system that makes it all but impossible for third‐party candidates to win. They rarely can achieve the large plurality of votes necessary for victory. Those citizens who actually vote for third‐party candidates are likely to waste their votes, or even worse, inadvertently help to elect the candidate they hate the most. This is the dreaded “spoiler” problem that affects all winner‐take‐all election systems."
"4","But if third‐party candidates usually have trouble winning office, that does not mean that these parties have not played a vital role in the political system. A main theme of this book is the way in which minor parties have contributed to the marketplace of political ideas. In particular, Gillespie notes that such important policies as the abolition of slavery, women's suffrage, child labor laws, the progressive income tax, Social Security, and gay marriage were first introduced and championed by third parties."
"5","Gillespie's analysis could have benefited from a bit more of a comparative perspective. He does note that most other Western democracies use proportional‐representation voting systems, which allow for the routine election of minor‐party candidates. But there is not much discussion of the very different roles that minor parties play in these other political systems. In these countries, minor parties do more than contribute to the market place of ideas. They provide representation and political power to a wider variety of citizens and political groups. Most multiparty legislatures are ruled by a coalition of parties that includes some minor ones, thus giving them the opportunity to actually influence policy decisions. This is what we are losing in the United States by having neither proportional representation nor a political system that fully includes minor parties."
"6","            "
"7","DOUGLAS J. AMY"
"8","Mount Holyoke College"
