"","x"
"1","In an ideal world, environmental policy decisions would be grounded firmly in an understanding of the often‐complex connections among the environment, the economy, and the public's welfare. Decisions on what to do about climate change, for example, would involve consideration of both energy use and the air pollution that comes from the burning of fossil fuels, and perhaps also the design of cities and transportation systems that affect energy use, air pollution, and climate change, and thus public well‐being."
"2","Most political scientists recognize that the American political system does not tend to foster this kind of integrated policymaking. Whether at the national, state, or local level, institutional fragmentation and a preoccupation with narrow and short‐term policy objectives tend to limit what most policymakers are willing or able to consider at any given time. Increased partisan and ideological polarization further weakens governmental capacity to take appropriate action in a timely manner."
"3","This is precisely the dilemma that Gary Bryner and Robert Duffy analyze in this brief but fascinating account of U.S. environmental policymaking. How can the various interconnections of climate change, energy use, and air quality be clarified through the use of science and policy analysis, the benefits and costs of action laid out, and the trade‐offs made evident? And how might policymakers better understand long‐term consequences of the policy choices they face, such as the public health benefits of reducing the use of coal to generate electricity?"
"4","The authors' core argument is that any solution to the related problems of climate change, air quality, and energy use must be pursued in an integrated manner. More broadly, they ask how capacity for policymaking can be improved so that governments at all levels can work toward fashioning an ecologically sustainable future."
"5","Three major policy areas are selected for this analysis: climate change, energy policy, and air pollution control, all at the national level. This research strategy makes sense, although one could argue that many states and local governments may be better equipped to aspire to integrated policymaking in these and other policy areas. This is because at these levels, policymakers can more readily see the implications of policy choices, and also because more emphasis may be placed on problem solving rather than on partisan and ideological position taking."
"6","That said, there is probably no greater national and global environmental challenge that necessitates an integrated approach to policy than climate change. Virtually every human activity that uses energy is likely to be of concern at some point, and whatever actions are taken on climate change also should seek to minimize adverse impacts on the economy and society."
"7","This book offers a demanding and yet readable overview of the subject. Some observers will find that the level of detail is perhaps excessive, although others will understand the necessity of providing enough information (about, say, cleaning up coal, increasing energy efficiency, the promise of clean car technologies, or the virtues of biofuels) to make a strong case for policy integration and for the long‐term goal of sustainability."
"8","To date, the modest action that the United States has taken on climate change demonstrates well the lack of sufficient political will and policy capacity to act. Elected officials are preoccupied with the presumed short‐term economic costs, and have been vulnerable to intensive lobbying by the fossil fuel industry as well as to objections raised by political conservatives, many of whom doubt the very existence of the problem despite overwhelming scientific evidence. Bryner and Duffy argue in part that only through a more‐coordinated approach that promotes a fuller understanding of the problem and the consequences of various policy options can we hope to find a resolution in which competing interests can come together."
"9","At heart, this is an optimistic book. The authors are hopeful that given the right information and a suitable framework in which to evaluate it, the myriad interests can be brought together and the conflicts resolved. Policy integration around the broad but potentially transformative idea of sustainability may indeed be possible, as the authors argue. Some may remain skeptical, but the conversation is definitely worth having."
"10","                        "
"11","MICHAEL KRAFT"
"12","University of Wisconsin"
