"","x"
"1","In this book, Byron E. Shafer undertakes an ambitious project to assess and explain political change in the United States from the onset of the New Deal to the present. Shafer delineates four specific political periods over 80‐plus years: the High New Deal Era (1932–1938), the Late New Deal Era (1939–1968), the Era of Divided Government (1969–1992), and the Era of Partisan Volatility (1993–2016). Next, Shafer examines how the prevailing profile of party balance, ideological polarization, substantive conflict, and the policymaking process interact to explain how and why political actors succeeded or failed in their efforts to enact policy across these four eras. Working at a highly aggregated analytical level, one is struck by how these four relatively simple organizing principles provide significant leverage to explain a large proportion of political variation over eight decades. Quite simply, it is a compelling and impressive work of historical political analysis."
"2","While Shafer produces a cogent, convincing narrative detailing the political dynamics of the era, it does leave room for some debate and discussion. First, Shafer's choice to operate at such a highly aggregated level of analysis facilitates his aim to draw some general conclusions. That approach, however, seems to overlook important contributions of specific actors at various points in time, many of which contribute to changes in the policymaking process, one of his four organizing principles. This struck me as possibly overstating the impact of “party balance” at the expense of individual agency and strategic behavior."
"3","A second concern stems from a rather broad and somewhat unconventional definition of ideological polarization. This term generally refers to the relative differences between the two political parties—how far the typical Democrat is from the typical Republican in Congress. Shafer uses this approach to analyze the current era, but he adopts broader interpretations of polarization to analyze other eras. When discussing the High New Deal Era, he simultaneously casts the era as one of a depolarized electorate but a polarized institutional environment marked by dissension between the executive and judicial branches. While this approach is not wrong, it does seem to connote a much broader, multifaceted depiction of polarization that emerges from sources such as institutional competition more than ideology."
"4","The most pointed criticism I have is that Shafer attributes too much explanatory power to partisan balance, neglecting a key factor that structured politics for much of this time period: race. While race is explicitly discussed in the sections touching on civil rights, racial differences influenced a wide array of policy areas during much of the New Deal era. For instance, southern opposition to proposals related to social welfare and labor policy stemmed not solely from economic conservatism but in large part from a fear that blacks would be granted legal protections under such acts. This influences the narrative by placing greater emphasis on ideological polarization and party balance while underreporting the crosscutting effect of race."
"5","In closing, I hasten to add that these critiques are offered as quibbles related to the analysis, and they are in no way fatal flaws. Shafer has produced an ambitious book that helps explain political dynamics across a wide swath of American history. His development of an explicitly defined framework allows him to make direct comparisons across eras while allowing him to make persuasive statements about how and why American politics unfolded as it has since the New Deal."
"6","                        "
"7","TIMOTHY P. NOKKEN"
"8","Texas Tech University"
