"","x"
"1","The U.S. health care system, which makes up almost 20 percent of the economy and continues to grow, is complicated and full of contradictions. Columbia University sociology professor Adam D. Reich has written an excellent book that describes these contradictions, specifically focusing on the tension between market forces and altruism in the delivery of health care."
"2","In agreement with hospital historian Rose Mary Stevens that hospital organizations continue to “carry the burden of unresolved and perhaps unresolvable contradictions of the healthcare industry” (p. 1), Reich's study focuses on hospital care in the United States. In discussing the role of market forces in U.S. hospital care, Reich employs the notion of commodification, defined as the process of turning hospital care into something bought and sold on the market. Believing that health care is too important to be viewed as a typical commodity, and in agreement with economic anthropologist Karl Polanyi and philosophers Debra Satz and Michael Sandel, Reich finds three problems with commodification: it is unjust and coercive, it undermines and debases the very value of health care as a service, and it can cause malcoordination and anarchy as a result of uncertainty."
"3","To demonstrate the contradictions and tensions inherent in hospital care, Reich studied three separate hospitals, each of which began at a different time in history and pursued a distinctive mission in Las Lomas, California. The first of these hospitals, PubliCare, operated as an almshouse with the goal of addressing the needs of the underprivileged at a time in the nineteenth century when medical care was typically received at home and reserved for the wealthy. The second of these hospitals, HolyCare, was founded in the early twentieth century by an order of Catholic nuns in an effort to provide health services, offer spiritual comfort to patients, and cater to a new clientele of paying patients. The third hospital, GroupCare, was founded in the late twentieth century with a mission to rationalize and economize care for middle‐class patients and its hospital employees."
"4","To conduct this study, Reich held extensive interviews with individuals from each hospital, including Katherine Taylor, a nurse manager at GroupCare; Sandra Lacks, a social worker at PubliCare; and Adriana Martinelli, a nursing director at PubliCare. Based on his interviews and observations, Reich concludes that the variances in medical practices at these hospitals reflect each organization's attempt to grapple with the impact that commodification has on medical care."
"5","According to Reich, the almshouse roots of PubliCare can be observed in its dominant philosophy that everyone has a right to medical care. To Reich, this philosophy can be seen especially in the emergency department, which is frequently visited by the uninsured, the underinsured, and the poor, all of whom seek care for nonacute conditions."
"6","HolyCare, on the other hand, may emphasize the hospital's mission of preserving the moral and spiritual dimensions of care, but its mission is pursued “through the market rather than in opposition to it” (p. 13). While Reich views HolyCare as the most explicitly mission driven of the three hospitals, he also discovers it to be the most entrepreneurial and business oriented. To him, “doctors at HolyCare often seemed to use their medical expertise as a tool for maximizing their earnings” (p. 108). HolyCare provides incentives for doctors to deliver more treatment than necessary, benefiting both the doctors and the hospital."
"7","Finally, Reich believes the managed care–based GroupCare has sought to overcome the uncertainty inherent in medicine. In its attempt to be efficient, GroupCare has emphasized avoiding costly medical mistakes and eliminating redundant tests and interventions, but it has also excluded the uninsured and rationed care in the process."
"8","                        "
"9","HENGAMEH HOSSEINI"
"10","Pennsylvania State University"
