"","x"
"1","For over two decades, the question of how political principals handle better‐informed subordinates has been central to the study of American institutions. The basic theoretical logic—delegate authority to friends, and not to enemies—has become well‐known to a generation of scholars. It has also been the subject of endless discussion and extension. Sean Gailmard and John Patty's Learning While Governing, therefore, steps into a crowded arena, but manages to bring theoretical rigor and empirical detail to an under‐addressed question: where does government expertise come from?         "
"2","The authors observe that informational concerns have been central to the expansion of the federal government, and develop three thematically related models of information acquisition in the executive branch. The first considers the labor market for bureaucrats. How might the government induce people to invest in learning policy‐relevant information, given that salaries can be low and incentive pay is rare? The answer might be that the government can compensate expert employees who care about policy outcomes with policy‐making discretion. Tenure protections also give such employees confidence that they will be around to exploit their expertise. The second examines inter‐branch information sharing. Given that the president has inherent authority over many tasks, what types of advisers would Congress appoint to inform the president? To maintain the credibility of their messages, the answer is to appoint advisers who are ideologically close to the president, rather than Congress. Finally, what types of regulators should be appointed to elicit information from external actors such as regulated firms? Again, the need for credible information transmission requires that regulators reflect not only the preferences of the principal, but also those of the informed parties."
"3","Each of these models is supported by extensive case studies. The first examines the development of the civil service, tracing the co‐evolution of expertise and job tenure as the system covered an increasing portion of the federal workforce. In what is perhaps the most‐effective empirical chapter, the second model is used to explain the growth of the institutional presidency in the twentieth century. Here we see how Congress would acquiesce to, and sometimes support, the appointment of loyalists to the president's inner circle. The third model helps to explain why progressives regarded leaders of the newly formed Securities and Exchange Commission as having uncomfortably close relationships with the securities industry."
"4","The book does a masterful job of developing and explaining its theories in an accessible fashion, and could well become a model for future scholars. While its overall theoretical framework (known as “cheap talk” games) will be familiar to scholars of institutions, it is deployed in a way that instructs readers in the many nuances in the logic of delegation under asymmetric information. As a result, the applications to the American executive branch are quite novel."
"5","One shortcoming that the authors recognize is that their cases do not constitute a real test of their theories. In one sense, this was inevitable: the cases are complex and unlikely to be amenable to careful statistical analysis. Their breadth often raises the possibility of alternative explanations, such as the role of electoral politics (acknowledged in the book) in determining whether presidents would cover specific federal agencies under the civil service. To take other examples, employers desire and delegate to high‐quality employees under many circumstances, and political compromise and logrolling can result in unrepresentative agents. A fuller consideration of alternative hypotheses might have helped to establish more firmly the significance of the informational theories developed here."
"6","These quibbles notwithstanding, there is great value in pushing a theoretical perspective forward, and showing that major historical developments are at least consistent with it. In light of the status quo in the study of bureaucracies, this represents true progress."
"7","                        "
"8","MICHAEL M. TING"
"9","Columbia University"
