"","x"
"1","Betina Cutaia Wilkinson theorizes that unequal levers of power exist among and across African Americans, Latinos, and whites that foster an “us vs. them” perspective that reflects three categories of variables: social contact, context, and identification with one's racial/ethnic group. The analysis shows that variations among the three groups in these categories produce divergences in closeness, commonality, and competition between and among them. These patterns affect how the groups respond to various types of policy proposals—for example, when will Latinos join blacks, and when will whites and black collaborate? The answers to such questions significantly affect the nation's political future."
"2","The book draws from two major data sets, the Latino National Survey and the 2010 Cooperation Congressional Election Study, which is not regularly used in research on Latinos. Despite the limitations of the data, which author describes well, combining these resources provides a rich foundation for this research. The research also includes a qualitative component based on the results of focus group interviews in New Orleans."
"3","The study presents the results of an extensive number of multiple regressions that test the various aspects of the theory. These results are presented in chapters that analyze each group's perspectives regarding the likelihood that they will become partners rather than rivals. The results indicate that, as would be expected, sometimes whites and Latinos will coalesce against blacks, sometimes Latinos and blacks will ally against whites, and on occasion whites and blacks will oppose Latinos. Multiethnic coalitions are shown to vary depending on social contact, context, and identification with one's racial/ethnic group, as the theory predicts."
"4","Although they result from rigorous analysis, these findings are neither unexpected nor particularly insightful. The findings would have been much more useful if, in clearer, more straightforward language, the author had used the multiple hypotheses to analyze specific types of multigroup responses to explicate the value of the theory. For example, how do the groups respond to policy proposals that benefit one group but are likely to be opposed by others, as was the case with black opposition to expanding affirmative action to include Latinos in the University of California System? Similarly, Latinos oppose anti‐immigrant initiatives, while black leaders and citizens oppose continued immigration because they see it as an economic threat. Do white views of this issue primarily reflect their economic interests, or are they a function of social contact and identification with one's racial/ethnic group?"
"5","The volume also raises other significant questions. Why was New Orleans chosen as the location for the qualitative interviews? It is arguable that no U.S. city has a more multicultural society. Cities like New York and Los Angeles are ethnically diverse, but the various groups are spatially segregated. New Orleans has a much more integrated multiethnic society. Its population and institutions are therefore less likely to negatively target new immigrants than those in cities with new immigrant populations such as Atlanta and New Orleans."
"6","More troublesome, however, is the author's failure to include in the analysis the perceptions of blacks that Latinos, especially Mexicans, bring with them. Given the centrality of context in shaping group perceptions others, ignoring this calls into question the results of the analysis."
"7","In conclusion, the volume takes on a major task. Overall, it is a thoughtful and well‐executed study that is a useful guide to how we should approach the study of the politics of intergroup relations and their impact on national politics. However, the validity of the results is significantly diminished because of the lack of discussion of the attitudes that immigrants bring with them."
"8","The volume will be most valuable to senior researchers and advanced graduate students. It is not likely to be useful for undergraduates."
"9","                        "
"10","RODOLFO O. DE LA GARZA"
"11","Columbia University"
