"","x"
"1","What are the causes and consequences of America's military buildup since the start of the Cold War? Often this question is answered in a piecemeal fashion, separately addressing political, economic, and social elements. Some scholars emphasize cost, some technology, some the role of the executive, and some civil–military relations. In a bold endeavor, Paul Koistinen attempts to provide the first cohesive analysis of all of these elements in one scholarly work."
"2","Koistinen's primary goal is to demonstrate the comprehensive, costly, and penetrating effect of national security on American life. He emphasizes four facets: the effect of the American national security state on executive power, civil–military relations, weapons sophistication, and the American economy. Koistinen begins the book with a discussion of the role of the presidency and Congress. He suggests that a Cold War climate dominated by increasingly complex weapons technology (such as missiles and nuclear weapons), coupled with a rising Russian threat, caused the executive branch to slowly surrender its agency to the armed forces and defense industry. Although Congress had a brief moment of dominance sparked by the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandal, it was ultimately hindered by the huge and permanent national defense budget, which included numerous sophisticated research and development (R&D) projects beyond effective congressional review. Koistinen then casts his eye on the military and defense industry. Once again, he examines the effect of new, sophisticated weapons and R&D. He finds that the sophistication of technology required many suppliers who rely solely on the Department of Defense for orders, resulting in an oligarchic, monopolistic relationship immune to traditional market forces. Thus, as demand for these weapons decreased, these industries had no other market to turn to. More importantly, as profits have become an increasing motive for the defense industry, the quality of weapons produced has decreased dramatically. After demonstrating the extent to which the national security state permeated the various branches of government and the economy, Koistinen focuses his argument on the science industry and academia. Spending for national security, funneled through various organizations such as the National Science Foundation, became the principal source of funding for various aspects of university research ranging from engineering to political science."
"3","Although Koistinen's work is comprehensive, it surprisingly neglects the role of the various agencies whose voices were essential to shaping economic policy and responding to economic distortions created by a national security state. In particular, there is no discussion of the role of the Treasury, Council of Economic Advisors, or the Federal Reserve."
"4","It becomes clear throughout Koistinen's book that he fears the current direction of the American national security state as a challenge to America's future economic growth and, consequently, primacy in the world. These costly, high‐tech new weapons have not only drained America's coffers and isolated its military marketplace, they are also often unreliable in battle. It is also clear that Koistinen fears the loss of the democratic process as traditional checks and balances become subject to national security needs and an increasingly dominant military–industrial complex. Despite his in‐depth analysis and ability to demonstrate the grandiose nature of the American national security state, Koistinen leaves the reader wanting more, owing to his lack of prescription. There are no suggestions regarding potential policy shifts and the feasibility of implementing these shifts."
"5","Koistinen's comprehensive study of the political economy of American warfare is a valuable contribution to the study of national security and American primacy that will fuel many interesting conversations."
"6","                        "
"7","ROSELLA CAPPELLA"
"8","Boston University"
