"","x"
"1","When in the late 1970s New Yorkers en route to work came face to face with thousands of men and women sleeping and begging on the streets and in train tunnels and bus stations, the government of the City of New York, facing court order, opened emergency shelters for the homeless. Less visible were the 5,000 families with children who were sheltered in commercial hotels and by non‐profit service organizations. This surge in need had not been seen since the Great Depression, and the City government said it was temporary. But many families could find no safe place to go, and more came in, and years after the sheltered families with children pushed up to 10,000. Almost 40 years later, the shelter beds for single adult men and women have now decreased, but the families have multiplied."
"2","The authors of this study have taken stock of this experience and have confronted the question, “Why, after all this time, are there still families unable to afford basic human necessities, including housing?” (p. 2). Their query reaches as far back as the first Dutch outpost of a thousand people in the 1620s and traces the families across every era through 2012. This analytical narrative gives us distinctive pictures of the economic conditions of each period and how the economic realities of daily life impinged on particular families who had to enter the shelters of the time. Through lucid documentation, we see how a story about family homelessness that is unusually comprehensive in scope comes together."
"3","The central conclusion of this study is that homelessness among families is a problem of poverty. In essence, their answer combines an understanding of the nation's sources of economic growth, and the realities of economic life of families with children. Some heads of households, they found, were more vulnerable than others. Most at risk over the centuries have been single mothers with small children. In times of plummeting economic conditions, the mothers with lowest resources could lose what little they had been able to marshal, so that their recovery was likely to lag far longer. A loss of precarious family ties, itinerant work, the lowest wages, and limited options for wages could push a mother further into extreme poverty and cause the loss of the family's housing."
"4","For every era, the authors give basic markers of the macroeconomic conditions within which poor mothers lived day to day. They note a series of boom‐and‐bust cycles in the U.S. economy, suggesting that, seen longitudinally, the most precarious among poor mothers were recurrently thrown into extreme circumstances. The recurrence of threats included depressions, panics, recessions; variations in supply of labor and jobs, and shifts in sources of trade and wealth, as well as disasters from the weather and mass disease and the violence of domestic war and riots. Each could leave economic repercussions from which many poor and vulnerable families might not have been insulated and therefore could not readily recover the resources they needed to retain personal housing for their children."
"5","This study also examines in detail the nature of the responses that people have mounted to protect poor mothers and children when they have lost their housing. Most importantly, these protections came from both public and private sources. The first municipal almshouse was constructed in 1736, and the third was Bellevue, which opened on the East River in 1816. Charitable organizations, also, used a variety of methods attempting to aid poor families, and they urged New York State and City governments to legislate, finance, and operate a variety of social protective programs. Government support for permanent housing came in 1879 and led to the Tenement House Act of 1901 to counter poor sanitation and overcrowding. The limitation on all efforts was the enormous number of poor families in need in every era and the slow pace of political agreement on how to move forward. The last chapter makes this clear through original research on policies concerning poor homeless families in recent decades. This is where today's story starts. Using documentary realism and historical detail, this study is a strong foundation."
"6","                        "
"7","DONNA KIRCHHEIMER"
"8","Lehman College, CUNY"
