"","x"
"1","Debates over judicial selection in the states and which mechanism of selection produces the “ideal” judge have been raging in state legislatures and legal circles since the nation's founding. Against the backdrop of elite appointment and electoral mechanisms that dominated state judicial selection throughout most of the nation's history, Greg Goelzhauser produces the first comprehensive examination of the most recent innovation in state court selection—the use of “merit selection” to staff state high courts. Despite a wealth of recent scholarly attention to the empirical implications of various methods of judicial selection used in the states, the basic normative claims espoused by proponents of merit selection have never been adequately tested. Goelzhauser fills this void in the scholarly literature and, more importantly, lends empirically based insight into the policy debate over the types of judges produced by competing institutional designs of state high courts. Perhaps much to the dismay of proponents of merit selection, Goelzhauser finds that no single method of judicial selection produces a systematic advantage over another in terms of judicial characteristics."
"2","Goelzhauser uses novel—and by no means easy to compile—data on the seating of all state supreme court justices from 1960 through 2014. His careful and exacting coding of merit selection lends specificity and clarity to the variety of commission‐based appointment methods used across the states. Using these data, Goelzhauser tests the three most common claims made by proponents of merit selection: that merit selection produces more experienced judges, produces better qualified judges, and produces more diverse judiciaries than other methods of judicial selection. Utilizing more nuanced measures of experience, quality, and diversity than previous work, Goelzhauser finds few systematic differences between judges selected by merit and those seated by other methods. Nevertheless, some distinguishable differences were discovered. For instance, if institutional reformers seek a more diverse bench in terms of racial diversity, merit selection is more likely, on average, to produce black or nonwhite justices than election systems. However, merit selection does not outperform appointive systems on this same metric. If, on the other hand, reformers place more value on seating women on state high courts, appointive systems perform better, on average, than merit selection."
"3","Despite Goelzhauser's rigorous analysis, he treads carefully—perhaps too carefully—when wading into the normative policy debate about judicial selection methods. Although he mentions that “moving the [policy] discussion forward requires unraveling the empirical consequences of institutional reform” (p. 109), Goelzhauser hedges on rendering a final verdict on the efficacy of merit selection to accomplish the stated goals of producing more experienced, better qualified, and more diverse judges. Rather than using his empirical findings to condemn the overly simplistic normative claims made by proponents of merit selection, Goelzhauser focuses the normative implications of his findings in terms of the relative weight reformers may assign to the different dimensions of judicial characteristics. By situating his conclusions within a nuanced discussion about the types of specific experience, quality, or diversity that reformers hope to cultivate through institutional design of judicial selection, he fails to push reformers to abandon the qualifications debate altogether."
"4","Ultimately, Goelzhauser's reticence to fully engage the normative debate about the efficacy of merit selection compared with appointive or elective methods of judicial selection is a minor quibble. His contribution to the literature on institutional design of state courts and the policy debate related to state court selection mechanisms is significant. This book stands to be the authoritative treatment of comparative institutional design with respect to judicial selection and its influence on judicial characteristics of the state bench."
"5","                        "
"6","JENNA BECKER KANE"
"7","West Chester University"
