"","x"
"1","The U.S.–China relationship has become the most complex and most important one in today's international politics and economics. The Peoples Republic of China (PRC) and the United States began to reach out to each other and held ambassadorial talks in the 1950s. By the end of the 1960s, both governments felt the necessity and urgency to normalize relations owing to changing domestic and international circumstances."
"2","In his new book, A Cold War Turning Point: Nixon and China, 1969–1972, historian Chris Tudda chronicles the important domestic and international conditions for both the United States and China that led to this critical turning point during the Cold War with President Richard Nixon's visit to China in February 1972. He uses many previously unavailable sources, such as recently declassified White House tapes and international sources from other countries such as Poland, Pakistan, and Romania that played a helpful role in the rapprochement.         "
"3","The research recounts disagreements among individuals and agencies within the U.S. government. For example, while the CIA concurred with much of the analysis by the INR (State Department Bureau of Intelligence and Research) regarding the PRC–USSR–USA relationship during the 1960s, it differed with INR on one key point: a post‐Mao China could be more formidable if it could harness its economic and military potential (p. 11). Later developments seem to confirm the CIA's judgment."
"4","The book also reveals how U.S. allies influenced President Nixon's decision to normalize relations with China. When Nixon embarked on his first overseas trip to Europe, French President Charles de Gaulle urged him to move ahead because the PRC would “have more political weight” in international affairs as time passed. To what extent Nixon was emboldened by de Gaulle is hard to tell, but as Tudda explains, “Nixon headed home determined to begin the serious work of rapprochement” (p. 13)."
"5","It takes two to tango. While the book focuses on the intricate U.S. domestic and international factors that shaped Nixon's decision, it also explains China's motivations for rapprochement. Tudda mentions two major concerns of Mao: the chaos and self‐isolation of the Cultural Revolution, and China's need to join the international order in the face of the Soviet threat. The Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and the border fights fundamentally deepened the Sino–Soviet split. Nixon's public comments and secret diplomacy aimed at improving relations resonated in Beijing. His gradual easing of trade and travel restrictions led Mao to respond in kind, including inviting the U.S. ping‐pong team to visit Beijing."
"6","Different from his predecessors and many others in the U.S. government and Congress, Nixon considered China “a potential threat,” rather than a real threat. His foreign policy of realism and pragmatism opened the door for his more‐moderate approach to China. Nixon and Mao had two able and committed lieutenants: Henry Kissinger and Zhou Enlai. Kissinger's and Zhou's diplomatic skills helped them overcome or circumvent difficult obstacles such as the Taiwan issue before they successfully negotiated the Shanghai Communiqué."
"7","The study suggests that the road to Sino–U.S. rapprochement, although seemingly a long and winding one, actually only took a few years. Between 1969 and 1972, each side determined that its security required better relations. This mutual evolution in policy led to an important turning point in the Cold War (p. 203)."
"8","A well‐documented addition to the growing literature on the topic and full of intriguing stories, this book sheds some new light on this crucial period during the Cold War. I would highly recommend it to students of U.S. foreign policy and U.S.–China relations."
"9","                        "
"10","ZHIQUN ZHU"
"11","Bucknell University"
