"","x"
"1","The author, a former senior official in Israel's defense establishment, presents a very informative account of how Israel formulates its national security policy. This book benefits from richly documented research and an insider's understanding of the decision‐making process (DMP). The book also presents an in‐depth analysis of the DMP in several major case studies in Israel's national security history. The author argues that Israel's DMP suffers from several “pathologies”: unplanned reactive proclivity; a highly politicized process; absence of a clear political hierarchy; an un‐institutionalized process; and the primacy of the defense establishment."
"2","While some of the criticism of Israel's DMP is well taken and often balanced by pointing out Israel's strengths—such as the ability to make rapid and flexible responses, generally pragmatic decision making, effective planning in the defense establishment, and the skills and motivation of those in involved,—the book is marred by a faulty understanding of the nature of politics, particularly in democratic states. Too often the book reflects the frustrations of a senior bureaucrat with ministers, true political animals who refuse to accept the advice of the professional level and act on the basis of their understanding of what constitutes the national interest."
"3","Most striking is the insistence that the paramount importance of political factors is “pathological,” rather than viewing the political process as reflecting choices and preferences of the electorate in a democratic polity. The politicians are elected to make the decisions. Responsiveness to public opinion is a virtue in a democracy and not a problem (pp.42–43). A large majority of Israelis believe that their country should hold on to the Golan Heights and oppose relinquishing the Old City of Jerusalem. Defining the national interest along those preferences is probably more legitimate than a definition in accordance with the views of a bureaucrat. It is true that “the need for compromise and consensus greatly limits the ‘search’ for options” (p. 40), but this is a price people pay for being democratic in the United States and other democratic states as well. The author fails to understand that maintaining consensus in a state engaged in protracted military conflict is a political necessity for the ability to wage war and is an important component in its national security."
"4","The author also exaggerates the importance of the proportional electoral system in the national security DMP. This process is highly centralized, and most coalition parties have little impact on these issues. Moreover, in most years, the prime minister and the defense minister had the same party affiliation."
"5","The book also displays a typical Western bias for activism in foreign policy. The Middle East strategic environment, so well analyzed in the book, is hardly responsive to initiatives of the Jewish state, which is held in great suspicion and is often seen as an illegitimate political creation. A “wait and see” approach may have some merits and should not be categorically dismissed."
"6","Charles Freilich criticizes the political echelon for rejecting the advice of the bureaucrats. Yet, the bureaucracy's recommendation to apologize to Turkey for the Gaza Flotilla incident (pp. 40, 57), when finally accepted, failed to lead to an improvement in bilateral relations because of the fundamental shift in Turkish foreign policy led by its Prime Minister, Tayyip Erdogan. Rejecting the 2011 recommendation to continue transfering money to the Palestinian Authority in reaction to hostile actions (p. 57) seems to make some sense and cannot easily be labeled a mistake."
"7","The book is worth reading for its wealth of detailed information, but should be read with a grain of salt."
"8","                        "
"9","EFRAIM INBAR"
"10","Bar‐Ilan University and the Begin‐Sadat Center for Strategic Studies"
