"","x"
"1","Over the past decade, innovations in digital communication technology have been celebrated as a major asset in the campaign to destabilize authoritarianism. Mobile phones, the Internet, YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter have been lauded for their contribution to mobilizing regime‐challenging protest thanks to their capacity to disseminate information, build networks of solidarity, and coordinate collective action. But in Networked Publics and Digital Contention, Mohamed Zayani goes beyond this (by now almost conventional) account of digital media's political potential. In an extraordinarily rich and empirically anchored account, Zayani explores the way this new technology created a “zone of everyday contention” in Tunisia, a means to citizenship and political agency that extended beyond the mobilization of protest.         "
"2","The choice of Tunisia as the focal case to explore the destabilizing potential of digital media is apt. Tunisia was the first country to connect to the Internet in Africa (in 1991), and by 2011, it was one of the most connected countries in the region. The Zine El Abidine Ben Ali regime was expressly committed to making Tunisia an information communications technology leader, but it was also one of the most authoritarian regimes in the world. The regime embraced a contradiction not rare among developmentally ambitious dictatorships: the desire to harvest the economic benefits associated with media democratization at the same time that it contained the political risks associated with the free flow of information. The fact that the Ben Ali regime was the first to fall during the Arab Spring only highlights the political hazard of this twinned approach."
"3","Technological advances on the web drove the trend toward ever more inclusive and participatory media in Tunisia. This overturned the hierarchical top‐down “one‐to‐the‐many” model of traditional media and replaced it with a “many‐to‐the‐many” format in which the individual was both “creator and critic of content rather than . . . mere passive consumer” (p. 109). Zayani traces this trajectory from 1998 to 2012, beginning with the emergence of forums distributed by email, to online newsletters and “zines” posted on websites and available to the general public, to blogs that were both collective and interactive, to the supremely interactive Facebook."
"4","The new media was distinctive, Zayani argues, in the way it conferred political agency and made the “lived experience of the everyday” expressly political. Engaging in free expression and critical conversation helped Tunisians develop political consciousness and nurtured a participatory culture. Humorous observations and insolent rants fostered assertiveness, unsettled established hierarchies of power, and destabilized the regime‐fostered culture of fear. The practice of free expression led people to mobilize against censorship—the gateway, Zayani argues, to political activism of other varieties."
"5","The flourishing of the new media in Tunisia was clearly a global affair. To escape regime repression, many of the forums, zines, and blogs relied on hosting by servers abroad. And many of the digital sites were inspired by and/or managed through collaboration with co‐conspirators in the diaspora. In addition, the new media was most effective at inspiring citizen activism when it worked in tandem with the “legacy media.” Television stations such as Al Jazeera brought “framing skills” and popular reach. The user‐generated content of digital media offered immediacy and authenticity. Together they made a powerful hybrid that amplified the message of both."
"6","Zayani does not minimize the down side of this new media. Anonymity and spontaneity encourage cheap shots, sarcasm, and polarization. Rather than build a community of trust, this divisiveness can “blow up” the blogosphere, as it did in Tunisia in 2008 when Islamists and secularists unsheathed their verbal swords. Lack of hierarchy and oversight can lead to malicious rumors, deliberate misinformation, and sabotage rather than responsible exchange of ideas. And the ease of “clicktivism” can encourage political laziness and fail to prepare people for graduation from virtual to “real” activism."
"7","Is there a significant political role for digital media to play in the post authoritarian context? Indeed, argues Zayani. Even with impressive new guarantees of freedom of speech, Tunisia still suffers from an information deficit. Where conventional media remains timid and underskilled, where investigative journalism is still in its infancy, citizen journalism of the sort made carried out by the civil society organization Al Bawsala (which monitored and posted the activities of Tunisia's Constituent Assembly) provides a needed watchdog function. Digital media are essential tools of oversight and transparency even as authoritarianism crumbles."
"8","                        "
"9","EVA BELLIN"
"10","Brandeis University"
