"","x"
"1","If you ask any lay person—or most scholars of comparative politics—about the motivation for party formation in Africa, they are likely to offer the same answer: ethnicity. In a welcome antidote to this orthodoxy, Sebastian Elischer argues that African political parties and party systems are much more diverse than that. He relies upon seminal analysis by Larry Diamond and Richard Gunther to propose a typology of five ideal varieties: the mono‐ethnic party, the multi‐ethnic alliance, the catch‐all party, the programmatic party, and the personalistic party. While the first two types arise from ethnic foundations, the last three are distinctly non‐ethnic. If nothing else, this book will discourage future analysts from lazily conflating all forms of party organization in Africa under an ethnic label."
"2","Elischer's detailed empirical analysis covers all effective parties across all election periods in three African countries between 1990 and 2009. He discovers that non‐ethnic parties prevail in Ghana, as does a mixed‐party system in Namibia; in Kenya, by contrast, he finds that ethnic parties persist. Across 28 observations of election periods, 16 parties are ethnic and 11 are non‐ethnic (though non‐ethnic parties enjoy greater electoral success), a situation confirmed when analysis is extended (in less depth) to 7 additional countries and 25 extra parties. Moreover, the data reveal a tendency for parties to reach out and to become less narrowly ethnic over time. Elischer accordingly claims that multiparty competition does not automatically harden intercommunal relations in Africa and that ethnic parties can contribute to democratization, for example, by performing conventional party functions such as aggregating popular interests and providing voters with a choice of leaders."
"3","The book has a number of strengths. Because its framework is explicitly comparative—within and beyond Africa, and also over time—analysis is situated within the mainstream political science literature. While questioning the applicability to Africa of the model Western European mass party (now extinct even in its own original habitat), the author makes a case that African materials can contribute to conceptual development, for example, in defining patterns of political representation that are mediated by powerful patrons. Moreover, he measures party characteristics in very comprehensive fashion, not only using standard electoral and survey data, but also with original references to party history, leadership composition, organizational scope, extent of factionalism, and party manifestos."
"4","But the volume is hardly free of shortcomings. While the author's typology may exhaust the range of political parties in Africa, its inconsistent categories are not mutually exclusive. Real‐world cases blur ideal‐type distinctions, as when leaders of personalistic parties make ethnic or programmatic appeals. The author uses evidence selectively at times, for example, by allowing anecdotal qualitative insights to overrule the classifications dictated by quantitative scores. Elischer also elides the fact that party alliances like NARC in Kenya and FCBE in Benin were not political parties, although he treats them as such. Finally, for a book published by a major university press, the text is littered with many factual and typographical errors; Tswana (not “Tstwana,” p. 198 or “Tsawana,” p.256); Ian Khama (not “Kharama,” p. 197 or “Kharma,” p.198); Bingu wa Mutharika (not “Binga wa Muthuarika,” p.207); CCM (not “CMM,” twice on p. 194); and liberation struggle (not “liberalization struggle,” pp. 124 and 136). And the whole package is hamstrung by a perfunctory index."
"5","My biggest concern, however, is that typological classification represents a preliminary, descriptive stage of theory development. The book's biggest weakness is its limited explanatory power. The critical comparative question is why ethnicity is apparently salient for party formation in some places but not in others. The author makes a cursory effort to review rival explanations against the three main country cases, dismissing economic growth, electoral systems, and party laws as factors driving party types. He opts instead for a structural explanation based on the size of the largest ethnic group and the degree of ethnic fragmentation. He argues (counter‐intuitively and, ultimately, unconvincingly) that dominant ethnic groups are unable to unify and have strong incentives to seek inter‐group cooperation. Moreover, his structural argument refers to a time‐invariant factor (the demographic distribution of ethnic groups) that makes it difficult to understand how African parties and party systems can evolve over time. Thus Elischer's more‐ambitious claims—that multiparty competition does not incite ethnic conflict and that ethnic parties can contribute to democratization—remain tentative hypotheses until further tested against additional cases."
"6","                        "
"7","MICHAEL BRATTON"
"8","Michigan State University"
