"","x"
"1","How do we make sense of the world? Where do we learn about important world events and issues in international affairs? From the earliest days of America's Republic to the first professionally organized foreign correspondence for the first mass‐oriented newspapers in the nineteenth century, and throughout most of the twentieth century, the work of professional foreign correspondents has been seen to be fundamentally important to addressing these questions. And today, writes Giovanna Dell'Orto, in the concluding chapter of this captivating book, “At a time when instantaneous communication has shrunk the world but not bridged cultural and ideological divides, the necessity for professional foreign correspondence to provide a rich public arena for the formation of meanings about foreign realities is more critical than ever” (p. 256). A former Associated Press reporter and foreign correspondent herself, Dell'Orto was formerly with Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Bologna, and is now a professor at the University of Minnesota's School of Journalism and Mass Communication."
"2","Dell'Orto believes that “democracy has a critical need for its press to engage foreign affairs, because the news media present a pivotal discursive space where opinions about the world are molded and foreign policy parameters shaped” (p. 236). She marshals convincing evidence from nearly 200 years of American press history to show how deeply the press, through the dedicated work of foreign correspondents, has been engaged in foreign affairs since its very beginnings, and she makes a strong argument that it should remain so."
"3","Dell'Orto's vivid accounts and insightful critical analyses of the history of American foreign correspondence make compelling reading. Her research is based on no less than 20 decisive events and 2,000 articles from 1848 to 2008. Her highly original discussion of the reporting of significant events as far back as the 1848 French Revolution to the Boxers' siege of foreign legations in China in 1900, through what has arguably been the world's most turbulent years, between 1901 and 1945, when World War II ended and America was the self‐proclaimed world leader, and from Castro's Cuban Revolution in 1959 to the end of the Soviet Union in 1991, when U.S. prominence in global affairs still remained unchallenged, should raise important questions about media influence in the minds of readers in countries everywhere."
"4","Dell'Orto identifies the “fissures” in the American model of watchdog journalism, beginning with successful efforts by the United States and foreign governments to influence stories in the 1967 Israeli–Arab conflict. She argues convincingly that in the post‐Cold War and post‐September 11 eras, the privileged position given to homogenized trivial news has truly damaged “the ability of quality reporting to stand its own ground against the torrent of online information” (p. 156). American public perceptions of press credibility declined, and polarized, opinionated news, like emotion, was found to sell better than objective journalism."
"5","Dell'Orto's discussion of the troubled present and possible futures of U.S. foreign correspondence in the book's penultimate chapter truly gives one pause (p. 214). The argument in the final chapter is buttressed by engaging quotes from her timely interviews with news leaders for British, Chinese, French, and Middle Eastern media, as well as Pulitzer Prize‐winning journalists with leading U.S. news organizations, between 2008 and 2011."
"6","I anticipate that the book will become required reading for journalism students and in courses on international relations and foreign policy, not to mention media history. However, this timely and important work should be read not only by students and scholars but also by practitioners—the many news editors and foreign correspondents whose work should continue to be at the forefront of defining and framing meaning in international relations."
"7","                        "
"8","HOLLI A. SEMETKO"
"9","Emory University"
