"","x"
"1","The pro‐immigrant marches that occurred during the spring of 2006 were monumental. Over several months in many cities, millions of people marched to oppose restrictive immigration policies being considered in the U.S. Congress. This book is a welcome contribution to the emerging conversations on the fluidity of racial and ethnic identities in political science. It also adds to the growing scholarship on the sociopolitical effects of the 2006 nationwide immigration marches."
"2","The reader is asked to think of social identities in fluid terms, susceptible to frames and communication (as well as to manipulation). This constructivist approach to ethnic and racial identities might be familiar to students of comparative politics (see work by Kanchan Chandra) and will benefit research on American politics, even for those whose interests lie outside of racial and ethnic politics."
"3","Rather than focus on the traditional identity‐to‐politics link, Heather Silber Mohamed explores the “politics‐to‐identity” link. The theory for this book is developed by a clever combination of theories that are less common to Latino politics. Policy feedback theory, social identity theory, and social movements theories provide the backbone for the book's main argument. “Counter to the widespread expectation that the immigration protests would result in greater feelings of pan‐ethnicity across the Latino population” (p. 154), the results show that “Latinos interviewed after the protests were more likely to identify as American” (p. 155). This, Mohamed argues, was possible through strategic efforts by organizers to frame the marches in pro‐American terms."
"4","Mohamed is explicit in challenging notions of homogeneity among Latinos. By considering Latino subgroups in Chapters 3 and 4, the author takes a long‐overdue look at the impact of country of origin, citizenship, and acculturation on Latino political attitudes, particularly on the issue of immigration. Particularly interesting is the discussion in Chapter 3 about the frames pushed by different political actors throughout history in an effort to define and shape Latin American identities in the United States. The policy‐to‐identity link is highlighted by a detailed examination of a history of social movements and immigration policies that are relevant to Latinos. This is enriched by the exploration of intersectionality that includes gender, assimilation levels, and social and economic variables."
"5","The analyses make use of a natural quasi‐experiment that occurred during the overlap of the data collection for the Latino National Survey and the spring 2006 marches. The sample is split into pre‐marches (control) and during and post‐marches (treatment). The simplicity of the empirical explorations of the natural experiment add to its elegance. Mohamed employs state‐level fixed effects to show that the results are not an artifact of variations across states. I am left wondering whether these findings would extend beyond the early fall of 2006 and in less traditional Latino destinations. A replication using the Latino National Survey New England data set could help test the permanence of these effects further."
"6","Unfortunately, the book only tangentially describes the relationship between American, pan‐ethnic, country of origin identities, acculturation, and political attitudes. We learn that the framing along with mass demonstrations heightened feelings of Americanism among Latinos, but was this at the expense of other identities? Further, recent work has argued that the marches “racialized” Latinos, but the book does not help us understand what it means to be “more American.” Researchers at the University of North Texas found that the marches increased support for pro‐immigration policies among those most proximate to the marches, yet it is unclear how sociopolitical identities might affect policy preferences. This book sets the stage for further research into the feedback loop between policy discussions, mobilization, attitudes, and identities."
"7","                        "
"8","ANGEL SAAVEDRA CISNEROS"
"9","St. Norbert College"
