"","x"
"1","Quick: how much older is Richard B. Cheney than George W. Bush?"
"2","If your first instinct is to say anything greater than five years you will be wrong. The mistake would be forgivable. When Bush ran for president in 2000, his entire experience in government consisted of six years as governor of Texas. When he picked Cheney as his vice presidential running mate, he chose someone who had served as White House chief of staff, secretary of defense, and minority whip in the House of Representatives. “Green” was a word often used to describe Bush. Cheney, on the other hand, was “seasoned.”"
"3","Bush's selection of Cheney fit the late‐twentieth‐century pattern. Starting with Jimmy Carter's election in 1976, service as governor displaced service in the Senate as the standard credential for successful presidential candidates. But the same post‐Vietnam, post‐Watergate electorate that preferred to draw its presidents from “outside the beltway” wanted some assurance that their administrations would be competent in foreign and national security affairs. Carter, Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush each provided that assurance by balancing their tickets with experienced Washington hands."
"4","More than his recent predecessors, Bush initially fostered the impression that he was leaning on his vice president. “When you're talking to Dick Cheney,” he told one Republican senator, “you're talking to me” (p. 100). As Peter Baker points out, for the first time in history, the president‐elect placed the vice president‐elect in charge of the transition. Once in office, Bush delegated energy policy to Cheney. Despite his narrow and fiercely disputed election in 2000, Bush adopted “the no‐compromise resolve of his new vice president” rather than “the work‐across‐the‐aisle instincts of [Gerald R.] Ford and his father” (p. 82). On the morning of September 11, Cheney “ordered military warplanes to shoot down a commercial airliner,” perhaps after securing authorization from the President and perhaps not (p. 125)."
"5","Bush's respect for Cheney led some observers, even some scholars, to falsely conclude that they were partners (with the President perhaps the junior partner) in a “co‐presidency.” Baker shows that this was never true. Even during his first year in office, for example, Bush resisted Cheney's desire to immediately invade Iraq and, three years later, considered replacing him on the ticket with Senate Republican leader Bill Frist of Tennessee."
"6","During the second term, Bush disagreed with Cheney on a number of issues, relying more heavily on his own judgment and, in foreign policy matters, on the judgment of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. Baker records that the President and Vice President disagreed on “North Korea, gun rights, same‐sex marriage, tax cuts, Guantanamo Bay, interrogation practices, surveillance policy, Iran, the auto industry bailout, climate change, the Lebanon War, Harriet Miers, Donald Rumsfeld, Middle East peace, Syria, Russia, and federal spending” (p. 7). In their final conversation in office, Bush refused to pardon Cheney's top aide, Scooter Libby, even when the Vice President charged him with “leaving a good man wounded on the field of battle” (p. 11). In this as in every other instance of disagreement, the President prevailed."
"7","Baker does not overstate his case. Cheney remained influential during the second term, but “as one more person in [the president's] inner circle with a point of view rather than the font of wisdom he had been at the start of their tenure” (p. 446). Cheney was one of Bush's few allies in promoting the surge in Iraq, for example, but “as a secondary player fortifying the president, not the author of action” (p. 528)."
"8","Peter Baker, who wrote the best journalistic account of the Clinton impeachment, The Breach, has now written the best account to date of the George W. Bush presidency. For this, contemporary political scientists and future historians should be grateful.         "
"9","                        "
"10","MICHAEL NELSON"
"11","Rhodes College"
