"","x"
"1","Republican Party histories are staples of American political science in the study of political parties. From constituency‐based examinations of its relationship with African Americans, Christian conservatives, and neoconservatives, among others, to historiographies that investigate various periods in the development of the Party, there have been many important contributions to our understanding of the Grand Old Party. Robert Mason's meticulously researched The Republican Party and American Politics from Hoover to Reagan ranks among the best.         "
"2","The book explores the Republican Party from the late 1920s to the 1980s, a period Mason contends has largely been ignored by historians in favor of Reagan‐era and Reagan‐influenced conservatism and Party activity. His essential focus is on why fewer Americans during the period of his study identified themselves as Republicans than as Democrats. In so doing, Mason examines “how leading Republican politicians conceptualized the problem of their Party's minority status” and their revitalization efforts (p. 1)."
"3","He gives great detail to the quandary that the Party found itself in following Richard Nixon's defeat in the 1960 election. Particularly notable in this regard was the fall off in support for the Party in large urban areas. Mason documents quite well the steps the Party sought to take to address this problem. In retrospect, those efforts have not borne any fruit; indeed, the Party's standing in American cities has worsened."
"4","Probably of most interest to scholars and history buffs will be the discussion of the Party from the defeat of President Gerald Ford in 1976 to the conclusion of Ronald Reagan's presidency. The rise of the GOP during this period was stunning. In the fall of 1977, just 20 percent of voters identified themselves as Republicans. Reagan won the presidency three years later with 51 percent of the vote, and Republicans controlled the U.S. Senate for the first time in a generation (p. 247)."
"5","It is the portion of the book in which Mason raises points about the history of the GOP that resonates with analyses of the Obama‐era Republican Party. Here, Mason places the 1980 election at the core of the rise of the Party. Reagan capitalized on public anger about taxation and scope of government to move the Party toward a more‐aggressive domestic agenda, supported by Republican back‐benchers like Newt Gingrich."
"6","Mason also rightly notes that the rise of the Party during the Reagan years was built on a foundation that relied on a demographically “idealized concept of America” that was beginning to fade (p. 248). As such, a more‐diverse country would be one in which the Party would have more difficulty winning national elections."
"7","While more attention should have been paid to the impact of the northern migration of African Americans contributing to the growth of the Democrats (and, by extension, the decline of the Republicans), the rise of the Christian right, and the GOP's willingness to deploy negative racial appeals, symbols, and politics as a major part of its rebirth, this book is an important and valuable contribution to the study of the Republican Party. It will serve as an important bridge to those interested in examining the GOP in response to the presidencies of Bill Clinton and Barack Obama."
"8","                        "
"9","MICHAEL K. FAUNTROY"
"10","George Mason University"
