"","x"
"1","Pamela C. Corley, Amy Steigerwalt, and Artemus Ward open with a simple question: “How do we explain decisions where conservative justices agree with liberal justices on potentially contentious issues?” (p. 1). They argue that fully understanding unanimity on the Supreme Court requires understanding how legal factors shape the Court's decision making."
"2","The authors begin by illuminating the institutional changes from 1937 to 1947 that catalyzed the Court's shift from a collective, consensual body to a more‐individualistic and dissensual body. Next, Corley et al. address how, despite the rise of dissensus, a significant proportion of cases continues to be resolved unanimously. They argue that many considerations, including legal, attitudinal, strategic, institutional, and case factor, contribute to consensus on the Court. One major contribution of the book is the manner in which the authors incorporate the influence of the law, positing both a direct and an indirect influence on the Court's likelihood of reaching consensus. They propose that consensus is more likely when legal certainty, defined as an index of five components (cases involving a lack of legal complexity, amicus participation, legal conflict, legal dissensus in the lower court, as well as statutory cases), is high, thereby restricting the influence of ideology. Alternatively, unanimity is less likely when legal certainty is low, which allows ideology to drive outcomes. Their models predicting consensual or highly consensual decisions support these expectations and suggest that legal certainty also conditions the effect of ideology such that “even the most ideologically polarized Court finds agreement in cases in which the available information strongly points to a single legal answer” (p. 111)."
"3","Next, they examine the Court's motivations for granting certiorari in cases that are ultimately decided unanimously by investigating comments made in pool memos prepared by law clerks regarding certworthiness. Instead of focusing on a desire to correct errors, pool memos in unanimous cases are more likely to emphasize the need for the Court to issue a “final, national ruling” that resolves a legal question (p. 159). The authors therefore conclude that the Court is responsive to this need, even if it anticipates a relatively clear legal resolution and takes these cases to promote stability, predictability, and consistency in the law."
"4","The book makes a significant contribution to our understanding of Supreme Court decision making and has many strengths. Importantly, the authors are the first to systematically tackle the puzzle of unanimous decisions, as well as thoroughly analyze the broader notion of highly consensual decisions captured both in terms of votes and the presence of separate opinions. Second, it offers an innovative a priori measure of the law's influence on decision making and legal clarity that advances our ability to integrate legal concepts into decision‐making models. Third, organizing the book around the “puzzle” of unanimity and helpful case examples throughout makes it accessible to a broad audience."
"5","While the book has many assets, I offer a couple of critiques. Given its novelty and centrality to the book's argument, more tests and information about the legal certainty index would be helpful. The authors report models that include each component of the index individually but do not fully address whether all of the components truly tap into the same overarching concept. Such analysis would enhance the measure's credibility and facilitate its appropriate use by others. Second, our understanding of unanimous decisions would be improved by examining one or two other entirely different dependent variables. For example, the authors' argument implies that in addition to unanimous final decisions, cases with a high degree of legal certainty should also be likely to have unanimous or highly consensual conference votes and possibly fewer opinion drafts or take less time to reach a final decision. These analyses would further illuminate the process by which the Court reaches consensus and whether consensus emerges early in the Court's consideration of the merits. Overall, though, this is a well‐crafted book that fills an important void in legal scholarship."
"6","                        "
"7","EVE M. RINGSMUTH"
"8","Oklahoma State University"
