"","x"
"1","This is a book that should be of interest not only to China specialists but also to a much wider public. First, it tackles an important theme in the literature on development, namely whether economic growth per se leads to poverty reduction, or whether the relationship between poverty and economic development is more complex, requiring specific policies tailored to the goal of alleviating poverty. The book makes a powerful case for the latter argument."
"2","Second, it is a comparative study within a single country, which should be of interest to comparativists generally. It systematically compares the approaches to development in two very poor provinces in China's southwest, Guizhou and Yunnan, demonstrating that in Guizhou, higher rates of poverty reduction were achieved than in Yunnan, even though Guizhou grew at a slower rate than did Yunnan. The book is a theoretically informed, methodologically sophisticated analysis of the reasons for this difference. John Donaldson makes use of a typology of seven developmental strategies that states have adopted. He classifies Yunnan as a developmental state in which industrialization was the primary goal but which failed to generate adequate opportunities for the poor, since urban and wealthier rural areas benefitted most. Guizhou adopted a micro‐oriented, bottom‐up strategy that aimed more directly at poverty alleviation."
"3","Underlying similarities in geographical, demographic, ethnic, and cultural characteristics enabled the author to hold constant influential variables. Donaldson finds that strategies adopted by provincial leaders were most important in determining the differential outcomes. The central leaders laid down overall strategic goals, but each province had considerable autonomy to shape strategies in accord with the provincial leaders' preferences. China specialists will benefit substantially from the author's analysis of center–province interactions. The role played by Hu Jintao, now the outgoing General Secretary of the Communist Party, is of particular interest, since he had a commitment to reducing rural poverty, having himself served in Guizhou."
"4","Donaldson examines provincial variations in four policy areas: road building, migration, tourism, and coal mining. In each he finds that in contrast to Yunnan, Guizhou chose approaches to growth that specifically targeted poor villagers. The government increased income‐earning opportunities for the rural poor, that is, those who lacked education, start‐up capital, experience, and training. For instance, instead of giving preference to building large roads that connected major cities, Guizhou built inexpensive local roads that employed local people and that improved access of poor farmers to market towns. At the same time, this strategy was unable to benefit from economies of scale, so that production, where relevant, increased only moderately. In contrast, Yunnan built costly modern highways that contributed to economic growth but did not do much to help the poor."
"5","Both provinces promoted tourism, but Guizhou's approach provided employment to more poor people than in Yunnan, which concentrated funds on a handful of major tourist sites while allocating fewer resources to smaller sites. The large tourist establishment provided employment to the poor, but this benefit did not extend to the rest of the province. In Guizhou, the poor were able to participate on a much wider basis."
"6","Coal mining illustrates the trade‐offs in strategies of improving the lot of the poor. In Guizhou, coal mining was highly decentralized, more informal, less efficient, and very dirty, but also costly in lives lost to accidents. But the incomes of poor miners increased. Yunnan decided to develop larger, less‐accident‐prone mines, but this excluded more poor people."
"7","Donaldson did an immense amount of field research, interviewing officials and villagers in a variety of settings. Return visits to the research sites enabled him to further refine his analysis. In sum, this is an exemplary monograph."
"8","            "
"9","THOMAS P. BERNSTEIN"
"10","Columbia University"
