"","x"
"1","For those who suppose the Constitution smoothly and efficiently settles disputes among the branches—like the storied “machine that would go of itself”—the war power has always proven a vexing exception. The text is vague, the history inconclusive, and the practice contested. While this state of affairs has not kept scholars from advancing one claim or another on the “correct” allocation of power between the executive and legislative branches, it has (and always will) prevent one school of thought from achieving conclusive dominance over all others. Faced with this, some scholars have argued that disputes about the war power are essentially political and cannot be intelligently analyzed using traditional legal tools—a view I generally share."
"2","But in an ambitious new book, University of Michigan political scientist Mariah Zeisberg takes a different view. In War Powers: The Politics of Constitutional Authority, Zeisberg carefully unpacks the language and structure of the Constitution and combines this analysis with a nuanced appraisal of the relative strengths and weaknesses of the executive and legislative branches vis‐a‐vis the war power (their respective “governance capacities” [p. 26] to develop ostensibly neutral “processual” and substantive standards [p. 31]), which she then applies in a series of historical case studies in order to appraise competing claims to constitutional authority over the war power.         "
"3","This is a mouthful and hints at why the book, in less capable hands, could fail badly."
"4","If Zeisberg were to suggest that her standards could be applied with the certainty of a theorem, her argument would be seriously flawed. The standards she derives are much too general and malleable to generate conclusive proof of nearly any proposition. She asks, for instance, whether each branch grounds its deliberations “on reality, rather than fantasy” (p. 33) meaning a “correct” assessment of the security threat to which they are responding. Well, sure. But who thinks this is a standard that routinely lends itself to definitive application even in the fullness of time, let alone at the moment when the war power is deployed?"
"5","Fortunately, Zeisberg has much more modest aims. She aspires to provide “common terms for deliberation” (p. 51) and a shared “standard of assessment” (p. 50) by which to judge each branch's exercise of the war power. She hopes to create an agreed set of questions rather than a definitive body of answers. She does not, and cannot, get at the root questions about constitutional legitimacy in the war powers debate. She only provides a playing field on which that debate may take place."
"6","This is a useful goal, and the book repays close reading. It provides a way to think about the war power that gets beyond fruitless debates based on perennially inconclusive evidence. But it provides nothing conclusive in its place and, ultimately, does nothing to dislodge the conviction shared by so many scholars that, regardless of the standards by which we measure it, the exercise of the war power inevitably reduces to an application of the political process."
"7","                        "
"8","JOSEPH MARGULIES"
"9","Cornell University"
