"","x"
"1","Electoral rules shape political competition, structure party systems, and influence voter behavior. Politicians and constitution writers often choose these rules to mold the kind of political system they prefer. But Robert Moser and Ethan Scheiner urge electoral engineers to proceed with caution: electoral institutions, they show, have different effects in new democracies than they do in established ones."
"2","Since Maurice Duverger, scholars have predicted that single‐member districts (SMDs), where a candidate is elected by plurality, promote two‐party competition."
"3","Because voters in these systems know that voting for uncompetitive candidates wastes their vote, they choose strategically between the two most‐competitive candidates. In contrast, proportional representation (PR) offers voters a chance to cast sincere ballots, allowing parties to proliferate. Without discrediting these average effects, Moser and Scheiner identify a twist: in new democracies, it is difficult for voters and elites to behave strategically. Because party systems are poorly institutionalized and polling information is scarce, there is too much uncertainty in new democracies about which candidates are more competitive. As a result, SMDs in these settings do not limit the number of parties as they do in established democracies."
"4","Disciples of Duverger also argue that socially diverse districts produce more parties only under PR. But Moser and Scheiner show that social diversity increases the number of parties regardless of electoral rules. And the relationship between diversity and party fragmentation, they find, is curvilinear: both very homogeneous and very heterogeneous districts have fewer parties than districts with middling levels of diversity."
"5","Uncertainty and party fragmentation in new democracies also condition how electoral rules affect women's representation. Studies of established democracies find that PR systems tend to elect more women than SMDs. But fragmentation means female candidates in new democracies need to attract fewer votes than their counterparts in established ones. Empirically, this means that SMDs in new democracies elect just as many women as PR systems."
"6","Moser and Scheiner explore these relationships by leveraging mixed‐member electoral systems. In these polities, voters cast two ballots in legislative elections—one to be used to elect a representative through an SMD, and one to be used for PR. That allows the authors to compare voters' strategic behavior, the number of parties, and the proportion of women elected through each system within the same election. Cross‐national comparisons often have trouble accounting for all the possible country characteristics that may confound the relationship between electoral rules and political outcomes. So comparing across systems within the same country has enormous analytic advantages."
"7","How electoral rules shape elite and voter behavior is a classic question in political science, and Moser and Scheiner have applied to it the classic comparative question of how context conditions average effects. That alone is an important contribution. But this book also leaves room for future studies to refine our understanding. What exactly distinguishes new democracies from established ones? For Moser and Scheiner, the difference has to do with party systems being less institutionalized in new democracies. But some systems in their sample of new democracies (for example, Hungary) are actually more institutionalized than those in some established democracies (for example, Italy). And, as the authors recognize, new and established democracies also differ in other ways: new democracies are typically presidential, poorer, and less democratic. Future studies should disentangle these differences to determine what about new democracies conditions the effect of electoral institutions."
"8","Electoral rules also influence other aspects of politics. They shape how polarized the system is, how the parties respond to shocks, and the policies governments enact. This book takes a step forward and asks future scholars to investigate whether context conditions how electoral institutions affect these and other outcomes."
"9","                        "
"10","NOAM LUPU"
"11","University of Wisconsin–Madison"
