"","x"
"1","America prides itself on being a nation of immigrants, and part of what attracts them to its shores is a tolerance for phenotype diversity and ethnic pluralism. Immigrants are allowed to keep their religion, language, dress, and cultural traditions. Yet many immigrants work hard to assimilate into their host communities. When a group refuses to assimilate, they attract notice. This is especially true for African American immigrants, who seem to be flirting with remaining outsiders. Why would these new Americans who share an African phenotype set themselves apart socially and politically?"
"2","Christina M.Greer's research suggests that there are intra‐racial differences in attitudes among African immigrants from the Continent, Afro‐Caribbean, and native‐born African Americans. These differences are exemplified by their views regarding “linked fate,” coalition making, intra‐group relations, and perception of the “American Dream.” Greer's suggests that black immigrants' views regarding the American racial hierarchy have shaped their attitudes toward each other. Simply put, African American immigrants consider themselves higher on the racial hierarchical ladder than indigenous African Americans. For Greer, the concept of elevated minority status is an “extension of the model minority, in that Afro‐Caribbean and African immigrants are seeking to attain elevated minority status by remaining perpetual outsiders and forever foreign so not to ever fully incorporate themselves into the black American populace” (p. 27)."
"3","Do these attitudes concerning status positions carry over into their inclination to participate in politics and their views about public policy issues? Greer uses a combination of national survey data and a small data set collected from members of New York City's Social Services employees to answer this question. To supplement the quantitative data, she conducted person‐to‐person interviews with union members. She found that the “permanent black modifier” attached to African American immigrants had influenced their political views."
"4","The data also suggested that there were differences among the three groups regarding the possibility of achieving the “American Dream”— secure jobs, good housing, and upward mobility based on talent. African immigrants were more optimistic about achieving the American Dream. Afro‐Caribbean blacks were more pessimistic about equal opportunities and life chances in their adopted country. Native black Americans shared this pessimism but were more skeptical of coalition making with other African Americans. They also vacillated about the job threat from immigrants."
"5","Greer's work is pioneering insofar as it has set the terms for a larger discussion about the career mobility of African American immigrants and the American Dream. Beliefs about the American Dream are critical to immigrants' feeling of inclusion in their host country. Greer's work tries to explain why there are remaining intra‐racial separations and why coalition building is so difficult. Her work suggests that membership in labor unions served to bring these groups closer together and make them more politically alert. Union membership also encouraged them to support the Democratic Party and to adopt more‐liberal views about government spending for education, health care, and the environment. In this regard, African Americans were more supportive of government spending than were the whites in the union and nationally."
"6","As more cities become hosts for immigrants, it is imperative to replicate Greer's study to probe these attitudinal differences. Other scholars may wish to borrow her questionnaire (with her permission) to analyze relations between immigrant groups and their attitudes toward political participation. Good candidates for this type of research are cities like Minneapolis, with its Somali immigrants, and Washington DC, with its Ethiopian immigrants."
"7","Finally, Greer's book is well worth reading by scholars who are interested in African American immigrants and politics, as well as a wider audience interested in the increasing racial diversity of the American population."
"8","                        "
"9","WILBUR C. RICH"
"10","Wellesley College"
