"","x"
"1","In this book, Bryan R. Early more fully develops one of the key arguments for why economic sanctions fail to achieve full policy success. In contrast to those who argue that sanctions fail because they do not signal resolve, they fail to target a regime's ruling coalition, or they are primarily designed for domestic political purposes, Early contends that they fail because third parties bust the sanctions. “Sanctions busting” means that third parties increase their trade or aid with the sanctioned state, thereby reducing or even nullifying the effectiveness of U.S. sanctions. Some third parties, allies of the United States in particular, are likely to be trade sanctions busters. Often, however, sanctions take the form of reductions in aid. These sanctions, too, Early contends, are likely to be busted. Trade sanctions are busted by allies of the United States, whereas aid sanctions are busted by America's adversaries. While others have suggested that sanctions busting occurs, Early gives this view more weight than others and is the first to advance the argument that allies bust trade sanctions while adversaries bust aid sanctions."
"2","In support of his argument, Early offers the most thorough analysis to date of sanctions‐busting activity. The analysis employs both multivariate models and qualitative case studies. Using a competing risk model, Early shows that as the number of trade busters increases, the probability of sanctions success decreases. The effect is substantively significant; the probability that the sanctions end in success is nearly zero if there are six or more trade sanctions busters. Similarly, Early's analysis shows a substantively large and significant effect of changes in foreign aid on sanctions failure. The greater the aid increase, the more likely sanctions are to fail. Early also presents a new multivariate analysis of who is likely to be a trade or aid sanctions buster."
"3","Notwithstanding the sophisticated quantitative analysis, the strength of the book lies in the case studies. One case study examines the role of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), and to a lesser extent Turkey, in reducing the effect of U.S. sanctions on Iran. The other case study focuses on countries, particularly the Soviet Union, China, and Venezuela, trying to bust U.S. sanctions against Cuba. In both case studies, Early offers an abundance of evidence on how the busters, for example, the UAE and the Soviet Union, continued economic activity with the sanctioned state."
"4","Early in the book, the author notes that one reason sanctions are used is that they are less costly for the sanctioner than using military force. Early, like others in the field, does not follow up on this point. One implication of the argument that sanctions are less costly than military force is that the effectiveness of sanctions cannot be easily assessed by simply looking at the target's response."
"5","What constitutes success? Did U.S. sanctions against Iran succeed? Early says that the UAE busted U.S. sanctions against Iran. Are busted sanctions failed sanctions? From this reviewer's perspective, those sanctions seem to have punished Iran, suggesting at least some degree of success. Could the sanctions have punished Iran more if the UAE had acted differently? Probably so, but that does not mean the sanctions did not punish Iran or that they completely failed. Still, policymakers and scholars will benefit from Early's research and thinking more carefully about the role of sanctions busters."
"6","                        "
"7","MARK SOUVA"
"8","Florida State University"
