"","x"
"1","This is a book that investigates the effects of public policies on inequality in developed and developing countries by offering a clear‐cut argument: neoliberal economic policies empower the haves and increase the collaboration between them and political elites, thus leading to higher inequality. In contrast, the Keynesian economic policies that Charles F. Andrain advocates are oriented toward distributing wealth to the have‐nots, thus leading to the greater economic equality that exists in some European and other countries."
"2","Chapter 1 starts by dividing the perspectives on inequality into two major views: neoliberalism and Keynesianism. According to the latter, in a globalized economy, unless governments invest in education, health care, and welfare programs, the inevitable consequence is economic inequality. If the have‐nots lack resources that enable them to challenge existing inequalities, Andrain argues, social democratic/leftist parties, unions, social movements, and prowelfare actors should work together to produce public policies that empower the have‐nots."
"3","Subsequent chapters examine the relationship between public policies and income inequality in wealthy nations and in non‐Western countries and regions such as South Korea, India, Turkey, and central Europe. The book then argues that major international organizations and multinational companies are the culprits in the unequal redistribution of domestic resources through their pressure on or alliances with national political actors. Then the book examines protest movements across the globe to discuss their failures and successes. After discussing the inequality/democracy paradox in Chapter 6, the books ends with suggestions of what social scientists and social movements should do to increase awareness of and alleviate poverty and inequality."
"4","This well‐written book, enriched by references to classic novels pertaining to inequality and poverty, leaves several questions unanswered. For example, why has neoliberalism become the dominant perspective across the globe since the late 1970s? Andrain's brief discussion of economic crisis, unemployment, and other problems as the causes of neoliberalism makes sense, but the reader expects a more in‐depth answer. Another question pertains to alternative approaches. Without discussing any other theoretical approaches, he borrows his main explanation from the resource mobilization approach. His eclectic use of resource mobilization theory may be useful here, but one wishes for more discussion of this theory and how Andrain's use of it differs from its original use in the social movement literature."
"5","Another weakness becomes obvious in the book's discussion of public policies and inequality in specific regions or countries. Two examples are illustrative. First, Andrain argues that income inequality has increased significantly in the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland as a result of neoliberal policies. However, he ignores the fact that the degree to which inequality has increased in these countries varies considerably. While the Czech Republic has witnessed a low increase in inequality, Poland has experienced a dramatic one. Andrain ignores the fact that the way these countries adopted neoliberal recipes for privatization and economic growth made a difference. Second, he argues that in Turkey, the government of the AKP (Justice and Development Party) favored pro‐business public policies, as a result of which inequality was a Gini coefficient of 0.41. However, he does not present the Gini coefficient for 2002 or earlier, before the party formed a government. Moreover, according to Turkish Statistical Institute reports, the Gini coefficient in Turkey decreased from 0.41 in 2008 to 0.40 in 2012. Andrain also misses the important fact that the AKP's policies favoring the poor, such as increasing spending on education, health care, and social services, were the major reasons for its electoral victories in 2007 and 2011. These examples do not refute the main argument of the book but suggest that a deeper analysis would have been more convincing."
"6","Andrain's book is intended for a nonacademic audience, and it does a good job of communicating effectively with the reader. Indeed, it is especially innovative in its use of novels and the characters in them to illustrate its arguments. It highlights two dominant perspectives in the political economy literature and uses a comparative approach, which makes the book good reading for undergraduate public policy courses."
"7","                        "
"8","EKREM KARAKOC"
"9","Binghamton University"
