"","x"
"1","This book is an impressive effort by three authors to examine the various ways in which children are affected by war and other forms of armed conflict. The chapters—each written by one of the three credited authors—cover a wide range of topics, including child soldiers, children's role in in peace building, children in postconflict justice efforts, and child advocacy. The overall theme of the book is to move children away from being seen as the “hapless victims” (p. 32) of violence and instead to understand their capacity for agency in both the violence they encounter and the process of recovering from that. In this sense, the book takes aim at actors such as UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund) and UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees), which, the authors argue, see children as objects of care but as something less than fully functioning people with the broadest range of rights."
"2","This is not to say that the authors ignore the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other human rights instruments. They certainly treat these as central to the child protection regime. They do critique the image of the child contained in these documents. The book begins with a contextualization of the “social construction” of childhood, reviewing the contrast between the “Western . . . liberal” view of children as “pre‐political . . . a category of human beings distinct from adults” (p. 15) and non‐Western notions of children as capable of considerable independence and free thought. A subsequent chapter contrasts a “caretaker” model of child development with a “free‐ranger” one (p. 36): borrowing from modern psychological literature criticizing overprotective parents, the chapter's author notes that “free‐rangers favor agency rights over welfare rights” and are “wary of the international children's rights regime.” The authors draw from the literature of children's rights and child development to show how children are often not passive victims of war but instead are sometimes willing participants, active resisters, or both. Their experience of war and conflict is shaped by their agency, and a regime that treats them only as victims cannot help them in the way they need."
"3","Kim Huynh raises particularly interesting questions on our framing of the issue of child soldiers. Chapter 4, in fact, argues that a focus on child soldiers is misplaced in the work of international agencies: it should be on child civilians. Chapter 5 argues that children are often involved in conflict for reasons that make sense to them and to their culture. No one can argue with the author's assertion that an indirect approach to the problem of child soldiers—focusing on the causes of conflict and state capacity—is important, but not everyone will be pleased by the assumption that a blanket prohibition against child soldiering is a form of “cultural imperialism” to be eschewed. Chapter 7, on peace building, probably underestimates the degree to which UNICEF and other agencies do in fact see children as agents in their own cause and work with children to effect positive change in their own communities."
"4","Readers coming to this volume for a set of data on children in armed conflict, or a comprehensive rundown of where and how children are affected around the world, will not find what they are looking for. The evidence in the volume is mainly anecdotal and thus open to other interpretations. The final chapter, on child advocacy and activism, concludes mostly that it is hard to draw any firm conclusions from recent evidence. While UNICEF and other bodies have been experimenting with various ways to involve children in peace building, some things work, some do not. But the authors very usefully run down the issues confronting children in conflict zones and provide an important framework for involving children in their own protection."
"5","                        "
"6","JOEL E. OESTREICH"
"7","Drexel University"
