"","x"
"1","This book develops three intertwining themes about the development of what Patrick S. Roberts calls the “disaster state.” The first theme traces the expansion of federal disaster response as it has evolved from ad hoc relief funding prior to the New Deal to our contemporary president‐centered and bureaucratized response system. The second theme explores the uneasy coexistence of two missions for the disaster state—civil defense or homeland security on the one hand and natural disaster response on the other. The third theme examines the tortured rise of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and how it functions in a politicized federal system. Roberts' social constructivist perspective ties the three themes together, offering a unique historical perspective on the rise of the disaster state."
"2","The book begins with a description of the federal response to the 1927 Mississippi floods, an important episode in the transition from a Congress‐centered to a president‐centered disaster system. In response to that massive flood, President Calvin Coolidge appointed Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover to serve as the federal response czar. State and local governments welcomed the aid, and Hoover's success later propelled him to the presidency. Roberts contrasts this outcome with the far less successful response to Hurricane Katrina nearly eight decades later. In that case, FEMA was roundly blamed for a slow and uncoordinated federal response. The difference, Roberts argues, can be attributed to the heightened expectations about the federal role and the constraints faced by FEMA in fulfilling those expectations."
"3","Roberts isolates a spiral of public expectations and political credit seeking as a key dynamic in the expansion of the disaster state. From the earliest days of the Republic, Congress passed bills to provide relief from violent attacks, floods, and fires. That relief typically arrived well after the disaster and was aimed at recovery. Over time, these ad hoc interventions created precedents on which the federal government gradually extended its role in disaster response. Roberts shows how the contemporary disaster state grew out of a series of constitutional and policy debates about the appropriate federal role. As the modern presidency evolved, presidents gradually become the leading figure of disaster response, receiving both credit and blame for their disaster‐response efforts."
"4","If this spiraling public demand and political credit seeking is one critical dynamic in the development of the contemporary disaster state, rising demand for domestic security is another. Roberts explores the fascinating history of civil defense and shows how it institutionalized fundamental tensions between security and natural disaster missions. FEMA absorbed these tensions when it was created in 1979, becoming a hodge‐podge of civil defense and natural disaster programs with a fragmented and ambiguous mission. Although presidents increasingly recognized the value of an effective disaster agency for responding to natural disasters, they also pressed the agency to take a stronger role in homeland security. Roberts shows how FEMA has continuously lurched between these two poles of its mission."
"5","Roberts's book illuminates the historical arc of the federal role in disaster response and the dilemmas it has created. Basically, the disaster state is caught between rising public expectations on the one hand and highly constrained response capacity on the other. The result is a tendency to overpromise. This is troubling, Roberts argues, because it feeds into the potential for crisis management to adopt discriminatory strategies and discourages us from confronting some of the most serious challenges associated with contemporary natural disasters."
"6","                        "
"7","CHRISTOPHER ANSELL"
"8","University of California, Berkeley"
