"","x"
"1","East Asia looms as an economically dynamic but militarily volatile corner of the globe. Coming to grips with the challenges that the region presents to the world requires a solid grasp of the nexus of economics, security, and major power relations. This edited volume of high‐quality contributions from Chinese and American scholars of international relations offers valuable insights, especially regarding the impact of China's rise in East Asia. An introduction by editors Avery Goldstein and Edward Mansfield provides an erudite and comprehensive overview."
"2","The chapters by the Chinese contributors to the volume are particularly useful in understanding Beijing's perspectives on regional issues and the role of the United States. Yuan Peng, a leading analyst at a prominent Beijing think tank associated with the security apparatus, stresses that China and the United States share common interests in Northeast Asia. Consequently, he makes a case for great‐power cooperation. While Yuan recognizes the complexities of the security problems of Northeast Asia, he seems unduly optimistic about the prospects for U.S.–China cooperation. He sensibly argues that improved coordination over area issues is essential if ties between Washington and Beijing are to improve. Yet, his chapter also highlights the wide gulf in perceptions separating China and the United States. According to Yuan, the United States is an interloper in Northeast Asia without “core interests” there, whereas, he asserts, that for China, this is a most critical and sensitive area (p. 245). Many in Beijing—including Yuan—do not seem to grasp that many in Washington do think that the United States has a critical stake in Northeast Asia and as a result are unlikely to readily accept a diminished U.S. role in the area. Meanwhile, many in Washington fail to appreciate Beijing's extreme sensitivity to trends in Northeast Asia."
"3","Two chronic issues in East Asia are maritime territorial disputes and enduring concerns over energy insecurity, and each one receives thoughtful analysis by the contributors. A chapter by Zhang Tuosheng, a respected analyst from a Beijing research institute affiliated with China's military, offers a valuable Chinese perspective on the range of disputes in the East Asian littoral, including the South China Sea. In Zhang's view—one widely held in China—the United States is a troublesome meddler. Another chapter by U.S. academics Danielle Cohen and Jonathan Kirshner challenges widely held suppositions about energy security. Using an array of data, they make a persuasive case that two interrelated assumptions about energy are dangerous myths: first, that there is a global shortage of energy; and second, that state action can remedy the problem. Together, these myths—which the authors collectively dub a “cult of energy insecurity”—raise interstate tensions and exacerbate existing problems."
"4","There are a number of other fine chapters on an array of topics, including a fascinating one by Taylor Fravel that seeks to explain the Chinese military's recent interest in non‐combat operations. Another chapter, by Michael Horowitz, examines the security impact of regional economic integration. The findings of these two scholars will probably surprise many readers."
"5","This volume deserves wide distribution and should be required reading for all scholars and practitioners who focus on international relations in East Asia. Moreover, the book is very appropriate and most timely as a text for graduate and advanced undergraduate courses on East Asian security."
"6","                        "
"7","ANDREW SCOBELL"
"8","RAND Corporation"
