"","x"
"1","The rise of China and, to a lesser extent, the emergence of India, has spawned a wealth of scholarly analysis. With few exceptions, the preponderance of this work is not comparative in nature. That is a fundamental failing. Rising powers with global influence are likely to be influenced similarly due to their position in international affairs. Further, as is the case for many late‐developing countries, domestic tensions loom large in the agenda of policymakers."
"2","In this well‐laid‐out volume, George J. Gilboy and Eric Heginbotham begin to rectify this shortcoming in the literature. By pairing Chinese and Indian behavior across a range of categories, they provide an invaluable context in which to assess the actions of each. Across the board, in area after area, they find that “the broad patterns of Indian and Chinese strategic behavior are not widely divergent” (p. xvii). This is an important conclusion and deserves wide examination for U.S. foreign policy analysts and policymakers alike, and it has fundamental implications for the conduct of U.S. policy in Asia."
"3","The book's chapters are organized around a series of issue areas. Arguments for a uniquely offensive Chinese strategic culture look less surprising when similar Indian behavior is charted. Indeed, both behave in ways that realists would predict. Assertive behavior by both on their borders is well‐documented. Military modernization, and separately, doctrine are evaluated for each, and broad similarities are displayed: broad modernization and offensive doctrine. The meticulous calculation of purchasing power parity currency conversions using a sector‐specific methodology serves as a culmination of an excellent chapter on defense budgets. A rich examination of economic policies shows each to be an assertive promoter of national champions in a recognizable mercantilist strategy (although, obviously, given China's much larger size, its strategy poses a disproportionate share of problems, as the authors note). Diverting from this structure a bit, the authors also consider the implications of democratic peace theory on the rise of the two powers. Although they do not deeply engage the most‐recent material in this area, resulting in an undue pessimism regarding that literature's findings, the conclusions in the chapter remain sound: democratic peace theory gives us little ground to expect markedly more positive policy by either toward their neighbors."
"4","To be sure, Gilboy and Heginbotham recognize several important differences between the two. The Taiwan issue is a key burr in Sino‐American relations that lacks a precise analogue in South Asia. Its importance is recognized in their analysis, as is the potential for Chinese territorial expansion in the South and East China Seas, where treaty relations further complicate the relationship with the United States. However, Indian policy toward Pakistan does carry its own set of complications for the United States, to a lesser extent, as they note. Similarly, Indian relations with Iran pose challenges for the United States, too."
"5","It is surely the case that the authors are right in their exhortation not to trivialize the challenges the United States will face in relying on India as a counterweight to China. It is also the case that Chinese policy looks much more similar to that of many other insecure and unstable rising powers across history. In their survey across issues at a macro level, they highlight the broader context within which differences in specific Sino‐Indian foreign policies have often been emphasized (for example, Ashley J. Tellis and Sean Mirski, eds., Crux of Asia: China, India, and Emerging Global Order). It is critical not to miss the forest for the trees; Gilboy and Heginbotham provide that overarching view on core strategic issues for the two.         "
"6","Scholars would do well to follow in Gilboy and Heginbotham's footsteps to provide richer comparative work on Beijing's (and New Dehli's) policies. They and interested watchers of foreign policy alike should add this volume to their shelves, and the information in it to the context within which they assess Chinese strategic behavior."
"7","                        "
"8","CHRISTOPHER TWOMEY"
"9","Naval Postgraduate School"
