"","x"
"1","According to most projections, Asia will account for half of global economic output by 2050. Who will lead Asia is thus a question of vital importance. In this readable and succinct book, Claude Meyer, a former Japanese bank executive and current scholar at Sciences Po, assesses the prospects of the two leading contenders: a rising China and a resilient Japan."
"2","The conventional wisdom is that China is poised to become Asia's most‐powerful country while Japan is locked in demographically determined decline. Meyer agrees with but also adds nuance to this conventional wisdom by highlighting China's fundamental weaknesses—massive debt and a low capacity for technological innovation—and Japan's enduring strengths. China has already surpassed Japan as the world's second largest economy, and its prospects for continued growth seem brighter. Yet Japan looks set to retain its technological superiority and clout in financial markets. In the short‐to medium‐term, therefore, the two countries' economies will remain more compatible than competitive, marked not by head‐to‐head competition for control of industries, but by a division of labor within industries in which Japan specializes in high technology while China churns out low‐tech products and components."
"3","Despite the economic interdependence between the two countries, however, Meyer is pessimistic about prospects for peace. He argues that China has already become dominant in the political and strategic sphere because, unlike Japan, it has a seat on the United Nations Security Council, nuclear weapons, and the capacity for significant military modernization. Over the long term, Meyer believes that China will continue to grow faster than Japan and will steadily close the technological gap. Thus, the balance of power in Asia will shift from a rough bipolarity, in which Japan leads economically and China leads in political and strategic spheres, to full‐spectrum Chinese dominance. Given its history of leadership in Asia, Japan is unlikely to accept Chinese hegemony without a struggle."
"4","Much of what Meyer says is sensible, and even through the pen of a translator, he says it very well. The primary weakness of the book, however, is that it misleadingly characterizes the battle for leadership in Asia as a one‐on‐one standoff between China and Japan. Although these are the two major nations of Asia, the region's major fault line lies not between China and Japan, but rather between China on the one hand and Japan and several other states on the other. For example, the United States, which has by far the most powerful military in Asia (6 aircraft carriers, 180 ships, 1,500 aircraft, and 100,000 soldiers) and is the first‐, second‐, or third‐largest trading partner of nearly every state in the region, appears only as a bit player in Meyer's story. Meyer acknowledges that China's ultimate contest is with the United States for global supremacy. But he seems to imply that this is some far‐off conflict that can be neatly separated from China's current competition with Japan for leadership in Asia. The United States, not to mention India, South Korea, Russia, and Indonesia are very much a part of Asian geopolitics. One wishes Meyer had paid them more attention."
"5","                        "
"6","MICHAEL BECKLEY"
"7","Tufts University"
