"","x"
"1","“In no nation, by no Legislature, was ever so much done in so short a period for the establishment of Government, Order, public Credit & general tranquility.” So wrote John Trumbull, a Hartford lawyer, in a letter to John Adams at the close of the First Federal Congress (p. 13). Fergus M. Bordewich tells us the story of this Congress, sketching its principal characters and the momentous decisions that have defined the structure of American government down to today. The book draws extensively on the materials amassed by the First Federal Congress Project, a center affiliated with the Department of History at George Washington University that is dedicated to collecting and disseminating documents related to the history of this Congress. Bordewich's excellent use of these sources enables him to present a rich and textured view of representatives and senators as they deliberated questions such as whether the president would be referred to as “His Elective Majesty,” the first amendments to the Constitution, a revenue bill, the chartering of a federal bank, the location of the capital—temporarily housed in New York—the assumption of state debts, the negotiation of treaties with indigenous nations, and other issues of pressing concern."
"2","The book's central analytical point is that the decisions taken by this Congress—which appear to have been more the product of personality and whim than any coherent design—set precedents that have structured the internal organization of Congress and its relations with the other branches ever since. Washington is not just to “fill, but to create” the office of the presidency (p. 35), while the Senate's acquiescence to the House on an issue “establish[ed] a precedent [of coequal branches] that would last—frequently to the frustration of both—to the present day” (p. 71). In short, because the Constitution had left much unformed, the early decisions set a mold that has largely persisted. As Bordewich notes, “in this ever‐innovating Congress, even the trivial became precedent” (p. 133). I am sympathetic to this claim, although it is at times overstated. For instance, Bordewich roots the weakness of the office of vice president more in the personality flaws of John Adams—who “woefully fail[ed] to shape the vice presidency into an assertive force in the deliberations of the Senate, condemning that office to the diminished status that it retains today” (p. 13)—than in the fact that the office has almost no defined role outside the Senate or that senators are likely to hesitate in empowering someone who does not share a common institutional interest."
"3","There are some minor points that at times distract from the text. Bordewich, for instance, takes as a given that a compromise over the questions of assuming state war debts and the location of the federal capital was worked out over dinner in 1790. The existence of such a deal has been litigated among historians and political scientists for decades, but there is little hedging in this account. And while the subtitle refers to “a group of extraordinary men,” one of the narrative's strengths is to show just how ordinary these men were: they were sick, dying, nearly drowning, regularly drinking, often complaining, and generally looking down on each other. The ordinariness of this group of men is indeed one of the pleasure of reading this book."
"4","The book is written more for a general audience than for specialists. That said, it provides a very useful introduction to the period and to the broader First Federal Congress Project. Most importantly, Bordewich successfully conveys the texture of debates, the diversity of members’ expectations, motivations, and frustrations, and the sense of novelty and invention that must have characterized the proceedings."
"5","                        "
"6","DAVID BATEMAN"
"7","Cornell University"
