"","x"
"1","How does globalization affect countries? Do economic liberalization and integration with the global economy lead to political and economic segmentation within them? Using India's economic liberalization as his focus, Baldev Raj Nayar argues that not only has globalization not impeded India's efforts at national economic integration, but also, in specific instances, globalization has spurred these integrative efforts."
"2","Nayar builds his argument based on two pillars. First, he points out that studies that link globalization with national disintegration ignore the role of the state as an intervening variable in shaping the course and the outcome of globalization. Second, and specifically in the Indian case, he posits that critics of globalization have often taken an ahistorical view by ignoring that the postindependence project of creating an integrated economy and polity was far from complete when economic reforms were initiated in 1991. Combining these two insights, he argues that in the postliberalization period, the state both facilitated globalization and adapted its institutions to respond to the new challenges that is unleashed. The state's flexibility and adaptability prevented disintegration and indeed continued to push the goal of integration forward. The author supports his argument by developing three case studies—state planning, fiscal federalism, and the system of taxation—in which institutions have adapted and continued to shape the goal of integration."
"3","The postindependence political elite set up the process of state‐led planning and fiscal federalism as avenues for pursuing national integration through inter‐state economic redistribution. In the postindependence period, the Planning Commission, India's erstwhile national agency (since this book went to press, this institution has been dissolved and replaced) was responsible for the allocation of resources to India's constituent states and to the different sectors of the economy. After 1991, integration with the global market placed limits on that role, and the agency adapted by switching from comprehensive to indicative planning: it now focuses on providing direction to the private and public sectors, making development more inclusive, and supplying public goods and services to all. While economic activity had shifted into the hands of the private sector and posed constraints on state autonomy, the state sought to adapt planning and other institutions to continue its redistributive and integrative functions. The Finance Commission, which focuses on the distribution of tax revenues between the federal and the state governments, similarly adapted by making recommendations for fiscal correction and rationalizing the distribution of fiscal transfers. Globalization also made it obvious that India needed to rationalize its tax structure if it was to be a successful global player—liberalization thus encouraged further market integration rather than market segmentation."
"4","Nayar goes on to argue and demonstrate that increases in trade and investment, hallmarks of globalization, have also integrated Indian markets, although here the evidence is admittedly harder to find. Finally, globalization has allowed diversification of business elites, bringing some of the newer ones from states and communities not traditionally known to produce conglomerates. Nayar uses these as further evidence that market has mostly had an integrating rather than a segmenting impact on India."
"5","While this is a story of state capacity, it is also a story of the state's limits, particularly within a democratic federal political system. In this telling, India's constituent states impose limits on the federal government's capacity to shape India's economy. But global and societal forces also impose limits—businesses with global links are an example. This study pays less attention to those than they deserve. Highlighting them would have made the central argument of the book more compelling. That said, this book is an insightful addition to the scholarship on globalization and India."
"6","                        "
"7","SURUPA GUPTA"
"8","University of Mary Washington"
