"","x"
"1","I spent four years on a National Academy of Sciences panel on Lessons Learned from the Fukushima Nuclear Accident. I did not expect to learn much new from this collection of essays but was pleasantly surprised by its fresh perspectives."
"2","Gregory Wines, a U.S. security expert, discusses the Maginot Line–type vulnerabilities created by requiring that safety and security be measured against “design‐basis accidents” and “design‐basis threats.” It was, of course, a beyond‐design‐basis tsunami that incapacitated the cooling systems of the Fukushima Daiichi Units 1–4. Another chapter by a Stanford group is therefore devoted to a preliminary comparison of the possibilities of beyond‐design‐basis floods—by storms as well as tsunamis—of Japanese, European, and U.S. coastal nuclear power plants. The results are interesting enough to merit further systematic independent investigation, including the possibility of flooding of power plants located on rivers, especially in cases in which an upriver dam might fail."
"3","Kazuto Suzuki, a Japanese political scientist, notes that because of continuing legal challenges, Japan's regulatory system adopted a checklist approach to compliance with nuclear safety requirements. The different levels of Japan's government insisted to the public—and convinced themselves—that if all the items on the list were checked, the plant must be 100 percent safe, giving rise to the “myth of safety.”"
"4","Kaoru Naito, a Japanese security expert, points out the synergisms between safety and security protections. Japan's nuclear safety authorities, deeming their country not to be a major target of terrorist attacks, decided not to follow the post–September 11 U.S. requirement that on‐site portable generators and pumps be available with compatible connections in case a nuclear power reactor's electrical generating or cooling systems are disabled by an attack. Had such equipment been present and above the flood level, the core meltdowns in Fukushima Daiichi Units 1–3 might have been prevented."
"5","Nobumasa Akiyama, a Japanese political scientist, discusses the problem of regulatory capture in Japan, in which the regulated industry overpowered its regulators with its greater expertise and political clout. In my view, the United States has a problem of regulatory capture as well. Here it is not a problem of lack of regulatory expertise but of the ability of the utilities to exert pressure on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission through a sympathetic Congress. A notable example was the 2013 decision of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to overrule its staff's post‐Fukushima recommendation to follow the decisions by Japanese and European regulators to equip their reactor containments with heavy‐duty filters for airborne radioactivity in case it became necessary again to vent gases from a reactor containment to prevent its failure by overpressure."
"6","The overall lesson appears to be the necessity of a culture of continuous learning and safety improvement to counter the inexorable increase in reactor years of exposure to risk."
"7","There also are lessons from what happened after the Fukushima accident. Notably, Toshihiro Higuchi, a historian at Georgetown University, describes the political battles that erupted in Japan over the radioactive contamination limits for land—especially school playgrounds—and food established to protect public health. The same debates would arise in the United States after a large release of radioactivity.         "
"8","One disappointment is the technical errors in the first chapter, which sets the stage by describing the development of the accident. It should have been checked by someone familiar with nuclear reactor technology."
"9","                        "
"10","FRANK N. VON HIPPEL"
"11","Princeton University"
