"","x"
"1","Gregory F. Treverton wrote this book to provide “tentative lessons about how dividing states have handled the particulars in their own divorces, from oil and water to security, citizenship, and assets” (p. 3). He intends for the book to be read by a policy‐oriented audience and writes accordingly. Each chapter begins with policy lessons and then provides case studies to illustrate those lessons. While South Sudan is usually present in the background of the analysis, it is meant to be a general discussion of secession. Readers interested in current events such as the dispute in eastern Ukraine or the Scottish independence movement will also likely be interested in this book."
"2","Treverton divides the issues associated with secession into three main categories: people, natural resources, and national resources. Throughout all of the issues, he urges parties to start early in their negotiations. For example, he argues that Estonia's early start to monetary reform was critical, “providing as much time as possible for transition to new arrangements” (p. 171)."
"3","Treverton suggests that people be allowed to choose which country they would like to be citizens of and that states should start early to establish policies for refugees and pastoral people. Ethiopia and Eritrea serve as a cautionary tale in this category. Each country expelled citizens of the other country, creating a “sharp point of contention between the parties” (p. 14)."
"4","Treverton argues that states approach the division of natural resources, such as oil, as a win–win situation rather than a zero‐sum game. They also should establish wealth funds based on the Norwegian and Alaskan models to ensure that they continue to benefit even after the commodity has run out. Water poses unique challenges. In the Indus River, for example, India's development projects have an impact on people upstream in Pakistan, although the reverse is not always true (p. 120)."
"5","Finally, Treverton looks at the division of state assets and liabilities. While national assets, such as currency and gold reserves, can be moved, territory assets, such as post offices and military bases, cannot easily be moved. These two types of assets create different challenges. In the former Yugoslavia, for example, Serbia “quickly moved to seize most of Yugoslavia's national assets before Bosnia and Croatia could reach an allocation agreement” (p. 133)."
"6","Readers looking for in‐depth analysis may find these case studies to be lacking. They provide a brief overview of the issues but should only be treated as a starting point rather than an in‐depth study. In addition, Treverton does not give attention to the negative cases such as Somaliland and Abkhazia, where seceding regions achieved de facto independence without widespread international recognition. While Treverton frames the book around cases in which formal secession happened, these negative cases nonetheless are useful in pointing out some of the biggest and most difficult policy issues."
"7","Treverton also does not always give in‐depth consideration to the reasons that policies might be successful in some cases but not others. He addresses this issue in parts, stating that some of his suggestions “deal with wealthy, stable countries and perhaps are not easily adaptable to other, poorer contexts” (p. 49). He does not, however, follow this acknowledgment with a discussion of the reasons that his policy suggestions might encounter problems in the most difficult cases."
"8","Despite these critiques, Dividing Divided States is a useful book, and Treverton accomplishes his goal nicely. Policy‐minded readers looking for an introduction to the issues associated with territorial succession will find this analysis very helpful, with its clear and concise descriptions of the issues and specific policy suggestions.         "
"9","                        "
"10","CHRISTOPHER CYR"
"11","University of Colorado Boulder"
