"","x"
"1","The rhetoric of political argument is inherently moral in character. Whether directly or by implication, it refers to conceptions of rights, justice, virtue, obligation, and fairness, and it makes claims about the institutional designs that safeguard these. The rhetoric may or may not be self‐conscious, and it may be either authentic or cynically manipulative. But it always registers the moral foundations of the culture that sponsors it, reflecting, reinforcing, and even reimagining them."
"2","This is the terrain of Rebekah Peeples Massengill's perceptive study of the political contests in the United States over the role and behavior of the giant retailing corporation, Wal‐Mart. She wishes to understand the uses made of moral language and categories by disputants on both sides of the Wal‐Mart controversies, and, in particular, how these uses differentially relate to moral conceptions of the market. She also argues that the case study illustrates general moralizing processes in public debates about markets in the United States, as in such cases as health care reform, tax reform, and government bailouts of major corporations. Generally, then, it is an examination of how Americans make sense of the “moral dilemmas of modern capitalism” (p. 4)."
"3","The study relies on qualitative analyses of the language in public statements of organized opponents of Wal‐Mart, especially Wal‐Mart Watch, and of Wal‐Mart and its supporters. Massengill also analyzes major newspapers accounts in terms of how national media framed the moral content of this market‐centered contest for their wide audiences."
"4","Wal‐Mart has long been a lightning rod for criticism of the destabilizing effects of increasingly globalized markets and the powerful multinational corporations that energize them. Activists have criticized the company for low wages and benefits, harmful environmental impacts, and for driving manufacturing jobs to low‐wage nations and local companies out of business in American communities. The corporation has replied that it serves the needs of economically hard‐pressed Americans with its low prices and large variety of goods, that it has provided increased health care benefits to employees, and that it has taken steps to reduce its environmental footprint."
"5","Both sides draw from the common fund of moral values in American culture, but each draws on it in distinctive ways that are fateful for both the specific contest at hand and the broader prospects of achieving a greater measure of social justice in our political economy. Massengill locates the relevant moral content in three pairs of values: individuals and communities, thrift and benevolence, and freedom and fairness. Each pair manifests internal tensions and plays very differently in the arguments of Wal‐Mart and its critics."
"6","The company emphasizes how it meets the needs of financially struggling families for low‐cost goods, rewarding the virtue of thrift by providing the opportunity (freedom) to improve their living standards through more‐affordable consumption. It anchors these points in personal experiences as illustrated in appreciative individuals' testimonies. Meanwhile, the critics employ the more‐distant language of distributive justice, focusing on the abstract rights of workers to fair wages and taxpayers to fair tax burdens (to avoid paying welfare supports for poorly compensated Wal‐Mart employees)."
"7","Massengill argues persuasively for the greater effectiveness in this rhetorical struggle of the corporation's focus on concrete human needs and experiences. The emphasis on families distracts attention from the systemic sources of their distress, including Wal‐Mart's role in them. Meanwhile, both sides' rhetoric reinforces market capitalism's existing structures, further constraining the critics' pursuit of the progressive goals of social justice."
"8","At the end of her book, Massengill offers some ideas for improving the critics' chances. But her thoughtful analysis of political rhetoric shows just how much is left to imagine."
"9","                        "
"10","PETER CLEARY YEAGER"
"11","Boston University"
