"","x"
"1","The metaphor that is the title of this book refers to Mormons' search for acceptance in the American body politic without losing their religious distinctiveness. The book begins with a survey of Mormon beliefs, practices, and historical conflicts with American law and custom. It ends with an effort to measure the degree to which degree Mormons have and have not achieved their Promised Land. That said, the authors are primarily interested in showing how political conflict has shaped and continues to affect Mormon political preferences and institutional strategies, as well as public anxiety about them. Specifically, the authors promise to explain why Mormons are so invariably Republican, not only in numbers but also in degree of partisanship, and how this affects their political status."
"2","The book's analytic frame and primary methodological approach is provided by statistical analyses of polling data on contemporary political attitudes among and about American Mormons. Much of this material comes from 14 polls, primarily from Pew and Gallup, surveying the religious dynamics of the Mitt Romney presidential campaigns. In addition, the authors conducted five surveys that identified with greater specificity the intentions and values of American Mormon voters during this period."
"3","After explaining the significance of Mormonism's authority structure, the authors describe the consensus view that Mormons' extraordinary commitment to the Republican Party began in the mid‐twentieth century, when their church leadership was exceptionally political and conservative. They argue that this same deference to church authority now places Republican Mormons at odds with their party on such key issues as abortion, immigration, and gay rights. Of course, historians would complicate this story. The book's simplicity recommends it, however, for classroom use as a general survey of Mormonism in the context of contemporary issues. Moreover, the authors' larger point is no less insightful: the increasing conservatism of culture‐war Republicanism has exposed fissures on its Mormon flank. One cannot help but ask what fissures it creates in Mormonism, whether measured by continuing one‐party loyalty, conservative political discontent within the church, or, most obviously, contrarian and close votes by the Utah legislature."
"4","The final section of the book concerns the public's negative view of Mormonism during Romney's two presidential campaigns and in comparison to earlier Catholic campaigns for the presidency, as well as other Mormon efforts, most notably by Mitt's father, George Romney. The authors agree with the general consensus that religion did not cost Romney the election, but they note how anti‐Mormonism shaped his campaign and widened the divide between evangelical and Mormon Republicans. The increased distance between the two groups is explained by electioneering that called attention to Mormon doctrinal differences and social clannishness. After assessing the cost to Mormonism of its members' almost unitary partisanship and the general public's negativity, the authors conclude by evaluating the church's strategic response to both dynamics. They conclude that these pressures have given Mormon leadership new interest in cooperating with other conservative religions. The authors' chief interest, however, is in whether such affiliations will diminish Mormon distinctiveness. They think not but admit that Mormonism is now, as it has often been, in a state of strategic flux."
"5","The book does not consider the affect of the church's demographically dominant international membership on its domestic political stances. While this does not negate the book's conclusions, it does invite questions about the strategic ends of Mormonism's current political flux and, thus, the current definition of a Promised Land. Here, too, we see what may be the greatest strength of the book: not only the questions it answers but also those it encourages us to ask."
"6","                        "
"7","KATHLEEN FLAKE"
"8","University of Virginia"
