"","x"
"1","Divisive in rhetoric and elusive in ideology, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan is a problematic figure in recent American political history and thought. Moynihan considered himself a New Deal liberal, while author Greg Weiner likens him to the similarly controversial Edmund Burke, another statesmen who refused to conform neatly to ideological labels. The comparison is apt: the two politician/scholars indeed share numerous traits and personal characteristics. For all that, Weiner proves to be only half successful in making a persuasive case for Moynihan as “America's answer to Burke.” His description of Moynihan as a significant political figure with a coherent, well‐developed philosophy permits close comparison with the Anglo‐Irish parliamentarian. However, Weiner fails to make the case for Moynihan as a serious political thinker in the same league as Burke. Weiner nonetheless makes an important contribution by producing a nuanced and detailed analysis of how Moynihan's political thought guided and shaped his career as a highly influential politician and policymaker."
"2","Weiner's central point is that Moynihan is the exemplar of “Burkean liberalism” in modern American politics. In making the case for Moynihan as political liberal, Weiner points to his subject's lifelong dedication to the idea of government as being capable of improving social conditions and the necessity that it do so. The case for Moynihan as a Burkean rests on two pillars. First, he was a practitioner of the politics of limits. In other words, Moynihan believed that politics should be grounded in the concrete and avoid the abstract and, more importantly, that politics should promise only what it can deliver. Second, Weiner points to Moynihan's support of the family, churches (Moynihan was heavily indebted to Catholic social teaching), and other components of civil society—the “little platoons” of society, in Burke's memorable phrase—as the inviolable infrastructure of a well‐ordered polity."
"3","After the first chapter, in which he examines the central tenets of Moynihan's political philosophy, Weiner devotes the next two chapters to discussing Moynihan's views on domestic and foreign policy. Weiner does an exceptional job of showing how Moynihan's political thought informed both his positions on poverty and U.S. relations with the rest of the world, particularly the Soviet Union. Weiner is especially convincing in making the case that Moynihan, over his lifetime, held consistent views on social welfare policy, reconciling Moynihan the adviser to Richard Nixon who urged a policy of “benign neglect” toward America's urban core with the outspoken senator who opposed the Bill Clinton administration's welfare reform from the left, arguing that it was “bartering the lives of babes” (p. 85). At the heart of Moynihan's position on social welfare is the Catholic social doctrine of subsidiarity, which provides an ethical justification for the decentralization of governance. Weiner notes that subsidiarity occupies the midpoint between the radical individualism of classical liberalism and the left's statism. It also serves as the thread connecting his denunciation of the Great Society's “services strategy,” which he asserted led to “[t]he more programs, the less impact” (p. 26), with his advocacy of a guaranteed income for low‐income households during the Nixon administration because higher incomes would help stabilize poor families. His support for providing direct cash assistance to those with low incomes rather than expanding social services was a position he would continue to hold throughout the rest of his political career."
"4","Just as controversial was Moynihan's tenure as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations from 1973 to 1975. It was in this role that he became associated in the public's mind with neoconservativism—incorrectly, as it turns out, according to Weiner. The confusion lay in Moynihan's position that the United States should engage in vigorous ideological and political debate with the enemies of Western political values such as liberty and rule by law in ideological forums (such as the United Nations). Weiner points out that where Moynihan and the neoconservatives disagreed was over the question of the use of force. Moynihan showed no reluctance to employ military strength to defend freedom. However, he urged greater prudence than the neoconservatives in using the military to expand the reach of American ideals to other nations."
"5","Weiner uses the following quote from a magazine article written by Moynihan in 1968 as the epigraph to the final chapter: “The thought that we have genuine control over events is as much a delusion as the conviction that we are helpless in the face of the inevitable” (p. 115). This statement provides as succinct a summary of Moynihan's “Burkean liberalism” as one is likely to find among his writings. Moynihan spent his entire academic career arguing that modern society constitutes a complex system with problems that are intractable to radical, permanent solutions. That is not to say that incremental reforms are not possible or that government cannot play a major ameliorative role. It is merely to point out that politics has limits, and to be effective politicians must recognize and work within their boundaries. Weiner is correct in his assessment at the book's end that no one else has followed Moynihan's path, a fact that, in his view, contributes to the polarization marking the current U.S. political landscape."
"6","This book is recommended to students of American political thought at all levels, although more advanced graduate students might find the author's treatment of Moynihan's political thought somewhat superficial. Anyone interested in postwar U.S. political history will find the book enlightening and insightful."
"7","                        "
"8","ROBERT A. CROPF"
"9","Saint Louis University"
