"","x"
"1","On 8 November 2016, Donald Trump was elected president of the United States, surprising many (if not most) analysts, pundits, pollsters, and scholars. As Nate Silver, one of the more influential forecasters in the United States (and quoted in this book), put it, this is “the most shocking political development of my lifetime.” Many policymakers around the world reacted similarly."
"2","The wager of Oppenheimer's book is that policymakers would be better equipped to deal with such types of shocks to the system if they spent time pondering the implications of “plausible (not necessarily probable) narratives describing how very different futures could emerge from current circumstances, with markedly different consequences” (p. 5). Oppenheimer argues that scenarios are not predictions; rather, they represent a different way of thinking about the future that forces policymakers to have an open mind and, ideally, transcend the various biases that make anticipation difficult. Three specific ways stand out. Deconstruction of the scenario subject into constitutive parts help to identify the drivers of change, such as economic growth. Improved recognition helps policymakers to find meaning in events that may appear unconnected or random. Finally, scenarios help policymakers to prepare for the future by breaking down what he terms “grooved thinking,” which allows for better anticipation."
"3","The book is set up as a manual for policymakers. It includes detailed guidance on creating scenarios and provides several examples, including scenarios on Russia and China, which are fascinating. It is well written and accessible, and it would be useful in an undergraduate class on foreign policy. Ultimately, the book could have been strengthened by attending to several questions readers are likely to have upon finishing it."
"4","First, the evidence that using scenarios aids decision making is rather thin. Oppenheimer notes that such scenarios have been used in the private sector, which in itself is not evidence that it works, merely that it is used. To be convinced, we need to see some attempt at linking scenarios with outcomes. The literature on foreign policy decision making identifies several reasons why foreign policy decisions are different than those that occur in corporate boardrooms. Engaging with this literature and showing how scenarios help solve the problems inherent in small group conformity bias, certainty bias, misuse of analogies, and so on would have been useful."
"5","Second, it is clear from the text that scenario planning is a time‐intensive and often laborious task, requiring detailed knowledge of the subject matter at hand. It is not immediately clear that the benefits of the scenarios outweigh the costs, particularly in opportunity. One could argue that policymakers do not engage with scenario planning as much as Oppenheimer thinks they should because they do not see value in the proposition. Maybe they are wrong, but convincing policymakers that this is the case likely requires attending to the evidentiary problem identified earlier. One might also argue that resources would be better spent putting in place better decision‐making processes and procedures, as Alex Mintz, Richard Herrmann, and others have investigated."
"6","Finally, the 2016 election is insightful in looking at the Russia scenario that Oppenheimer constructed. Leadership change is mentioned, but it is on the Russian side rather than the U.S. side. This is not a critique that Oppenheimer did not foresee Trump winning the election but rather speaks to the problem of identifying the variables that one might focus on in scenario planning. These are ultimately theory driven: we choose the variables that we think are likely to affect the future, and we do so because we have a theory of what is important to world politics. Somewhat surprisingly, theory does not play a significant role in Oppenheimer's book, and it is therefore difficult to know what types of variables we should be focusing on. The price of oil is surely important, but it increasingly appears that individual leaders matter as well. Hundreds of variables matter to some degree. Without attending to theory it is difficult to know where to focus one's attention."
"7","                        "
"8","MARCUS HOLMES"
"9","College of William & Mary"
