"","x"
"1","The concept of borough identity has been embedded in New York City's political history since the consolidation of the city at the turn of the last century. The 1989 charter revision that abolished the Board of Estimate significantly weakened borough representation in city government. This decline in borough power has been exacerbated further by the decline in strong borough‐based party organizations, changing borough demographics, the “Manhattanization” of some of the outer boroughs, and 20 years of mayors who have paid little attention to borough political identity. This recent decline, however, should not necessarily be viewed as the death of the boroughs and their place in the politics and governance of New York City."
"2","If a case can be made for the continuance of strong borough recognition and representation in New York City, Staten Island may very well provide the best argument. Daniel C. Kramer and Richard M. Flanagan's book attempts to provide the evidence. Their work provides a political history of the borough from the Depression to the present. The authors suggest that the reader look at Staten Island as a small city deprived of its ability to engage in democratic self‐governance because it has been incorporated into a larger and quite different political jurisdiction. The authors mention the suburban character, white ethnic base, and geographic/topographic proximity to New Jersey as characteristics that separate this borough from the other four. But their strongest argument, and major theme of the book, is that Staten Island has a history of intense two‐party competition that the other boroughs lack. The book's greatest strength is the documentation, primarily via anecdotes and brief political biographies, of the party competition, and intra‐party factionalism, that the borough has experienced over the past several decades."
"3","While the book is subtitled “Conservative Bastion in a Liberal City,” the authors correctly note that while Staten Island Republicans, and Democrats, may be more conservative than their counterparts in the other boroughs, there clearly is a disconnect between Staten Island Republican conservatism and the current extreme brand of conservatism dominating national Republican Party politics. The authors attribute this in part to the borough being populated by many city employees who depend on a healthy public sector; and Republican Party success depends on these voters. Similarly, the authors state that the island's conservatism, reflected in both Democratic as well as Republican Party agendas, has frequently been contradicted by demands emanating from both parties for greater governmental intervention in controlling Island growth as well as demands for assistance from the state and city in promoting economic development, rather than relying solely on the market to achieve these ends."
"4","But if the authors' goal was to make a comprehensive case for Staten Island “exceptionalism,” they could have gone much further. Their work fails to present any systematic comparison between Staten Island and the other boroughs. They could have provided tables comparing the boroughs on housing density, changing racial/ethnic composition, and partisan politics. This would have strengthened, or weakened, their argument. In addition, while the authors address the major issues facing Staten Islanders, including growth management, infrastructure needs, and the closing of the Freshkills Landfill, their treatment of these issues is always as an artifact of partisan politics, falling short on substance. But if the authors' goal was to present a history of partisan politics in New York City's most Republican, yet most competitive, borough, they have produced a most readable and well‐documented work."
"5","                        "
"6","BRUCE BERG"
"7","Fordham University"
