"","x"
"1","The concept of peaceful co‐existence, much bandied about in the rhetoric of Chinese diplomacy during the Cold War, has been largely overlooked in the Chinese foreign policy literature over the last 20 years or so. With the exception of Sophie Richardson's insightful 2009 analysis of the concept in Chinese policy toward Cambodia, one struggles to identify any texts that subject the concept to systematic analysis. Liselotte Odgaard's book is therefore a welcome addition to the literature. It takes the concept seriously, and seeks to elucidate its operation through case study analysis. The author investigates how China's adoption of a strategy of peaceful co‐existence has improved its relative position in the international system since 1949, with an emphasis on the post‐Cold War period."
"2","Odgaard posits the existence of a dichotomy in Chinese strategic thinking and strategy. Here, an important distinction exists between China's self‐declared five principles of peaceful co‐existence and a nationalist alternative. Peaceful co‐existence is associated with China defining its national interests in terms of the search for common interests with other states, and furthering them through persuasion and compromise. Nationalism is associated with China defining its national interests in terms of rectifying past injustices, and advancing these interests by coercion and imposition. The author views the thrust of Chinese post‐Cold War policy as reflecting the primary influence of peaceful co‐existence and the secondary influence of nationalism. An important qualifier is added where peaceful co‐existence is viewed as a means to realizing nationalist ends (pp. 10, 194). Moreover, in the author's view, peaceful co‐existence will only be maintained as long as China continues to successfully revise the international order to suit its nationalist aspirations. The interpretation of co‐existence offered is a narrowly defined one, and alternative historical variants of peaceful co‐existence that are consistent with realist (Soviet Union) and liberal (India) models are reviewed."
"3","The case studies used to illustrate China's implementation of peaceful coexistence are wide‐ranging. They include representative selections for the sphere of conflict resolution (South China Sea, and Sino‐Russian and Sino‐Indian border disputes); diplomacy (Iran, Sudan, Myanmar); and legitimacy (Taiwan, Xinjiang, and Japan). On its own terms, the author's basic analytical framework offers a plausible explanation for Chinese policy from the end of the Cold War through to the end of 2008. It is in the post‐2008 period that important questions emerge. During this period, Chinese nationalist aspirations appear to be distinctly at odds with peaceful co‐existence. There is some discussion of these dynamics in the conclusion, but given the fact that it represents a direct counter to the author's central thesis, it could have been significantly expanded."
"4","The theoretical perspective adopted is a relatively ecumenical one. The author states clearly that her approach is consistent with classical realism and the English school. Explanatory variables used by constructivists, namely dialogue and strategic culture, are also incorporated into the framework. Odgaard's perspective is well‐articulated, but the approach adopted necessarily involves sacrificing theoretical parsimony. Some readers will find this a necessary trade‐off, where the benefits far exceed the costs. Others would take a contrary view. In any case, the author differentiates her interpretation from a basic realist autarchic peer competitor model and a liberal integrationist stakeholder model. Given the fact that there is a mix of sub‐variants within realist and liberal theories, theorists will query whether the models for the alternative explanations should be more developed. For example, the treatment of realist theory (presumably neo‐realist theory, as distinct from classical realism) does not appear to sufficiently reflect the important differences between the offensive and defensive versions of the theory. Inspection of the footnotes reveals that John Mearsheimer and Thomas Christensen are conflated in the discussion of the realist autarchic peer competitor model. The issue of alternative realist explanations leads to the question of whether Chinese policy may actually conform to a version of realist power transition theory, which is not tested against the author's model."
"5","Looking to the future, few would disagree that China should be encouraged to maintain a posture of peaceful co‐existence, away from a full‐blown assertive nationalist one. Given recent trends in Chinese policy, this will probably prove to be a challenging but necessary effort. Whatever the case, Odgaard's view should be carefully considered in the evolving debate on Chinese national security strategy."
"6","                        "
"7","NICHOLAS KHOO"
"8","University of Otago"
