"","x"
"1","In the American system of government, the relationship between the states and the national government has always been complex. Zachary Callen, in Railroads and American Political Development, demonstrates the enduring truth that federalism is an inescapable aspect of our political system by showing how it shaped the early development of our nation's infrastructure.         "
"2","Callen's work opens with a straightforward presentation of infrastructure policy in the early republic. Until passage of the Land Grant Act of 1850, which provided federal land to the states for railroad construction, there was nothing resembling a centralized infrastructure program in the United States. Prior to that time, there were sporadic state‐level efforts with minimal coordination and only occasional national efforts. Callen argues that federalism fundamentally structures these kinds of policy issues, as failures of state‐led policy eventually encourage pressure for national action. As states found themselves unable to complete railroads on their own, political leaders turned to Congress. Importantly, Callen links this particular issue to the broader debate over how American governance developed and shows how federalism can in fact lead to the growth of the national government, and not just present obstacles that inhibit national action."
"3","Chapters 2 and 3 of the book explore state railroad policies prior to 1850. Callen analyzes rail promotion at the state level and shows how few lines were constructed by the states on their own. Furthermore, efforts at coordination between states, while occasionally successful, usually failed as incentives for local economic competition triumphed. One persistent difficulty was the different track gauges used in different regions of the nation, requiring shippers to take material off their train cars and shift it to others upon reaching certain state borders."
"4","In Chapter 4, Callen undertakes a comparative study of U.S., British, and French railroads. Here he demonstrates that federalism limited national railroad growth in the United States, lagging behind both France (which employed a highly centralized approach) and Britain (which relied almost entirely on private investment)."
"5","The next two chapters of the book cover the role of Congress and the president in shaping national railroad policies. Callen finds that members of Congress, initially tied to their local concerns, were in the early stages unable to construct coalitions that would assist in building a centralized infrastructure; later, those who wanted resources for their own states turned to other members who favored greater national authority. The presidency also played a crucial role, as Millard Fillmore was the first president to accept that the federal government had the constitutional authority necessary to make a national infrastructure program a reality, and he signed the Land Grant Act of 1850 into law. Chapter 7 demonstrates how the land grants put in place under this law centralized authority in the national government and physically tied peripheral areas to Washington, DC, and the East."
"6","Callen has produced an important and compelling work on federalism and the development of the nation's early infrastructure that should be read widely by scholars. This book would also nicely compliment upper‐division undergraduate courses in federalism as well as graduate courses on federalism or American political development."
"7","                        "
"8","WILLIAM D. ADLER"
"9","Northeastern Illinois University"
