"","x"
"1","A colleague of mine likes to call the Cuban missile crisis “the ever‐peeling onion.” We know it far better than any other international crisis, and yet people still find new things to say about it. The latest layer to be peeled is the “photo gap.” From 10 September to 14 October 1962, the administration of John F. Kennedy restricted both the frequency and flight plans of U‐2 missions over Cuba, fearing that one might be shot down. While the White House was being skittish about sending its best eye in the sky over Cuban soil, Soviet troops were scrambling to complete strategic nuclear missile sites below."
"2","David Barrett and Max Holland characterize the photo gap as the third of three great Kennedy administration “secrets,” alongside “Operation Mongoose”—an ambitious program of covert action to undermine the Castro regime—and the private agreement to withdraw U.S. Jupiter missiles from Turkey in return for the withdrawal of Soviet missiles from Cuba (pp. 1–2). Chapters 1 and 2 tell how the photo gap came about; chapters 3 through 7 detail the politicking, infighting, scheming, and backbiting involved in the struggle to control the post‐crisis narrative; chapter 8 reflects on the implications of the photo gap; and a lengthy Appendix argues that scholars of the crisis have underestimated its importance."
"3","The book is a gripping read, well‐researched and extensively documented. The authors have full command of their facts. But their analysis falls short. First, they presume rather than demonstrate that the photo gap delayed the discovery of Soviet missiles in Cuba. While this is possible, it is far from certain: the situation on the ground was fluid, and weather was a factor. Second, while they note that the White House curtailed U‐2 missions out of fear that one might be shot down—as had happened twice elsewhere, to the great embarrassment of the United States—they make no attempt to evaluate the validity of that concern, and dismiss it with an ad hominem remark (p. 9, quoting a participant in the 10 September meeting in which Secretary of State Dean Rusk cogently articulated the very serious probable repercussions of a U‐2 shootdown: “After all this time and the many photographs that had been shown to Secretary Rusk, I was surprised to see how stupid he was on reconnaissance.”) Third, and perhaps most importantly, Barrett and Holland presume rather than demonstrate that an earlier discovery of the Soviet deployment would have made a difference. In reply to Raymond Garthoff's assessment that discovery of the missiles “a week or two earlier in October … would not have changed the situation faced by the president and his advisers,” they offer this puzzling non sequitur: “Given that the missiles were found none too soon, a more significant question is: what would have happened if the missiles had been found even slightly later?” (p. 115). Since Kennedy and his advisers took a full week to respond and made a conscious decision to assume that at least some of the Soviet missiles in Cuba were already operational, the most‐plausible answer is that not even this would have made a difference."
"4","While the book fails to make the case that the photo gap mattered—a “near‐failure,” after all, is still a success (p. 27)—it does an excellent job of showing the Kennedy administration in all its spin‐doctoring glory. Protecting the “third secret” may not have involved the same kind of shameless character assassination and lying under oath needed to mask the Jupiter missile deal; but, as Barrett and Holland deftly show, it offers yet further evidence, if any were needed, that the defense of the Camelot brand was brilliantly controlled and matchlessly calibrated."
"5","            "
"6","DAVID A. WELCH"
"7","University of Waterloo"
