"","x"
"1","Criminologist Louise I. Shelley has a simple and scary message: the shadowy worlds of terror, crime, and corruption have transformed and become increasingly intertwined, representing a rapidly growing threat."
"2","Tracing these “dirty entanglements,” however, is far from a simple task. Shelley provides a sweeping global survey, sometimes straining to connect all the dots from case to case and place to place. She points to all the ways that crime and corruption—from the use of fake IDs to drug dealing to bribery of cops and other officials—have enabled and facilitated terrorism. Shelley contends that crime, corruption, and terrorism have traditionally been examined as separate phenomena but that this no longer makes sense in a globalized and chaotic post–Cold War world. While corruption and crime can exist in the absence of terrorism, Shelley argues, terrorism depends on corruption and crime, and scholars and policymakers have not woken up to this new reality."
"3","Perhaps the greatest strength of Dirty Entanglements is to push security scholars and analysts to think more like criminologists and to push criminologists to pay more attention to security issues. Crime and security concerns have indeed been too artificially separated in the past (both in academia and in the policy world), and Shelley has been at the forefront of trying to change that. But by pushing so hard to make her case, Shelley goes too far in this otherwise fascinating book, and she has missed an opportunity to provide a more nuanced and analytically insightful account.         "
"4","Shelley's argument hinges on sweeping claims of change and ever‐expanding threats. Words such as “new” and “transformed” appear on virtually every page. Similarly, the problem is always identified as “worsening,” “growing,” “increasing.” But while much change is evident, it is all too easy to overstate it—a problem that afflicts much of the popular literature on transnational crime, terrorism, and other “global threats” (not to mention the often shrill policy debates on these issues)."
"5","Shelley does not address the possibility of counterarguments. She simply states that her book is the first to reveal the links between crime, corruption, and terrorism. As a result, Shelley gives no sense that some of her claims are actually hotly debated, including whether the terrorism threat may be overblown in some cases (and that the conveniently fuzzy “terrorist” label has become so loosely and so widely used for political purposes that it has less and less analytical utility). For instance, Shelley simply accepts terms such as “narco‐terrorism” without recognizing that they are highly contested."
"6","Shelley goes to such lengths to find close links between crime, corruption, and terrorism that she has little to say about why such links are less evident in some cases. Consequently, key questions are not asked, such as what conditions are more or less conducive to forming, sustaining, and strengthening such links? For example, in truly chaotic environments, it may be less necessary for crime and terrorist groups to bribe officials. Likewise, in less chaotic situations in which there is greater state presence, terrorist and crime groups may need to expend greater resources paying off officials."
"7","Shelley is so insistent that terrorist and criminal interests are converging that she glosses over the possibility that in many cases their interests are not only not the same but in fact may conflict. We get no sense of the conditions under which terrorist and criminal interests are most and least likely to converge. For instance, drug traffickers benefit from a highly porous U.S.–Mexico border and would be hurt by a border shutdown in the wake of a major terrorist border incident. Similarly, while Shelley repeatedly states that criminals and terrorists thrive on chaos, many criminals actually want a somewhat stable business environment. Moreover, for many criminals, they simply want to be left alone by the state—and what is most likely to draw the wrath of the state, in many cases (most notably the United States), is knowingly aiding terrorists."
"8","                        "
"9","PETER ANDREAS"
"10","Brown University"
