"","x"
"1","Viewed one way, environmentalism emerged as a big winner in modern America—after all, just contrast the pristine state of our woods and streams with their putrid and polluted ancestors from the 1970s. From another perspective, however, America's environmental record constitutes an international embarrassment: the country vies only with China for the title of World's Biggest Polluter, and reactionary climate change deniers hold prominent and legitimized places in the political establishment. Judith Layzer's compellingly written and exhaustively documented new book explores the history of that binary by skillfully weaving together two essential developments: the creation and spread of an anti‐environmental “storyline” among conservatives in policy debates and public discourse, as well as the detailed trajectory of environmental policy itself. Conservative anti‐environmental efforts, she concludes, achieved vital if mixed success. Although in the long term, they “did little more than slow the advance of restrictive policies” on issues like air pollution (p. 336), they also successfully refocused public debates around questions of economic costs. Just as important, they crystallized a sense of anti‐elite skepticism among a significant number of voters, creating a political environment that is frequently hostile to major progressive environmental reforms."
"2","In six meaty chapters organized largely around presidential administrations, Layzer charts environmental policy from the founding of the Environmental Protection Agency to the cap‐and‐trade debates of the Barack Obama years. Layzer shows how the anti‐regulatory impulse born of the 1970s economic crisis morphed into an anti‐environmentalist critique by the 1980s. That storyline then found its way into the institutional structure of the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations, retreated to the Republican Congress under Bill Clinton, and re‐emerged more powerful than ever under George W. Bush. Such a framing, while perhaps an overly common device in political history, works well here, as it permits Layzer to highlight the powerful similarities between Reagan and the younger Bush, both of whom preached a politically popular pro‐environmental message and styled themselves as latter‐day Teddy Roosevelts, even as they deliberately staffed regulatory agencies with women and men who philosophically opposed the regulatory project itself."
"3","Layzer synthesizes an impressive range of secondary literature to recount the rise of modern conservatism, hewing to a standard narrative about the creation of an intellectual infrastructure rooted in corporate‐funded think tanks. She accepts conservatives' own assessment that their “movement” was really a “war of ideas,” although her evidence suggests a different interpretation: conservatives really only had one “idea”—the federal government should tax and regulate less—which wasn't really new at all; rather, they gained political power by demonizing their opponents and shifting the debate toward economic individualism."
"4","The book's real contribution, therefore, lies less in explaining what motivated conservatives or how they organized, but rather in Layzer's ability to trace how conservatives put an anti‐environmental policy agenda into action. While the idea‐smiths worked to focus Americans on the economic costs of environmental regulation, policymakers from the president on down successfully deployed low‐profile legislative tactics, including riders, amendments, and administrative neglect, to weaken regulations. Despite its density, her history reads smoothly and provides empirical support for her claim that “subterranean challenges to the status quo can effect incremental institutional change” (p. 360). As the needs and demands of the environmental movement changed, conservatives responded. Although they failed to overturn 1970s‐era laws like the Endangered Species Act, they successfully blocked new reforms by the 1980s. As climate change emerged as the paramount concern in the last 25 years, American environmentalists have thus largely failed to overcome conservative opposition to taking significant and assertive action. Students of environmental studies and public policy will find this a compelling tale."
"5","                        "
"6","BENJAMIN C. WATERHOUSE"
"7","University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
