"","x"
"1","On the basis of interviews with 167 employees at 112 rape crisis centers in six states, Rose Corrigan criticizes the anti‐rape movement and rape law reform efforts from the 1970s through today. She concentrates her critique on three recent reform efforts—sexual assault nurse examiner (SANE) programs, “EC in the ER” laws (emergency contraception access in hospital emergency rooms), and sex offender registration and notification statutes. Corrigan argues that the 1970s anti‐rape movement's success at reforming criminal rape laws set the movement on a trajectory toward an “increasingly apolitical, social service orientation” (p. 9). As a result, she argues, rape crisis centers ended up functioning within the confines of legal and medical systems that were hostile to rape survivors and lost their ability to create real social change by transforming those systems. Corrigan criticizes the movement for an “absence of creative legal strategies” (p. 17), the lack of a “positive vision of rights” (p. 22), and for failing to develop a “specialized sexual assault bar to enforce the rights of rape victims” (p. 16)."
"2","Corrigan convincingly argues that medical and legal professionals do not take rape seriously, that rape crisis centers are “marginalized and politically vulnerable” (p. 3), and that “the goals of justice and care for rape victims are still largely unfulfilled” (p. 4). The strongest parts of the book are her assessments of SANE programs, EC in the ER, and sex offender registration and notification statutes. She quotes voluminously from her interviews (sometimes excessively), giving a richly textured picture of the implementation and impact of these recent initiatives. Her analysis of differences across states is particularly illuminating."
"3","However, the book has several weaknesses. First, Corrigan caricatures previous scholarship on the anti‐rape movement, which she describes as “ubiquitous, triumphalist accounts of the anti‐rape movement” (p. 3) that offer an “uncomplicated understanding and assessment of legal change” (p. 21). Corrigan also equates the anti‐rape movement with government‐funded rape crisis centers and then criticizes the movement for being too narrow. Corrigan's narrow focus on rape crisis centers means she misses much anti‐rape activism. If she had expanded her study to include anti‐rape advocates working outside of the criminal justice system, she might have found more of what she was looking for. For example, Corrigan criticizes the anti‐rape movement for not developing “affirmative rights‐based language” (p. 8) and failing to pursue unnamed “civil legal services” for sexual assault survivors, yet she only briefly mentions the crowning achievement of the anti‐violence against women movement, the 1994 Violence Against Women Act's civil rights remedy. While this provision was struck down by the Supreme Court in 2000, it is a counter‐example to the criticism that the movement only focused on the criminal justice system. Another is the recent Legal Momentum campaign to create workplace protections for sexual assault survivors who need time off from work to deal with the assault. Finally, she ignores the really exciting feminist work going on around community‐based solutions to violence, like the work of the Women and Girls Collective Action Network in Chicago or Incite! Women of Color Against Violence in Redmond, Washington."
"4","But the most glaring weakness is Corrigan's lack of attention to race. Corrigan says she had intended to focus on the “racial dimensions of institutional responses to rape” (p. 56), yet she excluded from her study advocates working for groups that “offer culturally specific programs for survivors of sexual violence” (p. 54). She states that she found it “fascinating” that she “heard very little talk about race from advocates” (p. 56) that she interviewed, but this does not seem surprising at all considering whom she chose to interview. She also excluded staff at university‐based rape crisis centers, another locus of important feminist anti‐violence work."
"5","                        "
"6","CARRIE N. BAKER"
"7","Smith College"
