"","x"
"1","Audra Jennings offers an in‐depth look at the early history of the modern disability rights movement by examining disability activism during World War II and its significance. In doing do, she aims to correct the widely held misconception that this movement in the United States grew solely out of the civil rights movement of the 1960s, an interpretation that strips disability activism of its own important political history."
"2","The focus of this book is the story of the American Federation of the Physically Handicapped (AFPH). While Jennings is quick to point out that the AFPH was not the founding organization of the disability rights movement, she argues that it did play a transformative role in its development. Unlike previous disability groups, AFPH was a “national, cross‐disability social movement organization” that brought together disabled citizens and veterans (p. 3). This created a sense of shared experiences beyond a specific type of disability and fostered an understanding that disability exclusions were attributable to systemic discrimination and not individual failures or misunderstandings. The AFPH also championed a “society in which state policy made possible disabled individuals’ full participation in civic life” (p. 3). While the notion of the role of the federal government underwent a major overhaul during the Great Depression, the New Deal promise that ensured the government would provide work and security for Americans fell short for people with disabilities. Established in 1942, the AFPH was able to tap into the politics of World War II in a way that extended this New Deal ideal to people with disabilities and, in turn, shaped the disability rights movement."
"3","A strength of the book is the considerable attention given to the founder of the AFPH, Paul Strachan, and how his own personal history inspired “[t]he goals, strategy, connections and style of the AFPH” (p. 24). Strachan became disabled at an early age when childhood diphtheria left him with a hearing impairment. He also was in a deadly automobile accident during the interwar years that killed his father and left him with a damaged spine that required him to walk with a cane for the rest of his life. Strachan remarked on how the discrimination he faced shaped his views regarding disability rights. For him, the personal was political."
"4","Strachan's ability to translate his personal hardships into political activism also had to do with his previous government experience. During World War I, he moved to Washington, DC, where he worked for the Bureau of War Risk Insurance. This bureau issued payments to servicemen's dependents. He was also involved in the National Federation of Federal Employees and worked as a labor lobbyist. Personal motivation coupled with his political experience made Strachan a leader in the early disability rights movement as he was able to understand the struggles of those he championed and utilized his established relationships with labor to further the AFPH agenda."
"5","The AFPH's story does not end with World War II. In the postwar era, the organization was able to tap into national concerns and expand its base, focus, and influence. Out of the Horrors of War details the organization's specific postwar triumphs, including National Employ the Physically Handicapped Week (NEPHW), the President's Committee on NEPHW, and strides made in accommodation legislation at the state and federal levels. However, these successes were not necessarily understood as such by subsequent disability activists, which distorted the AFPH's influence on the disability rights movement. This extensively researched book corrects this misinterpretation and shows that while the AFPH's tactics were products of a particular time in American history, its fight for “justice, equal rights, and opportunity” for disabled individuals was transcendent (p. 218).         "
"6","Overall, Jennings's book sheds light on a very important but forgotten chapter in the disability rights movement and contributes to our understanding of the long history of disability activism in the United States."
"7","                        "
"8","AIMEE MEDEIROS"
"9"," University of California, San Francisco"
