"","x"
"1","Political scientists writing about American politics are different. Unlike many scholars in other areas, they usually like the subjects of their research. Thomas Mann and Norman Ornstein have exemplified this positive perspective. Pre‐eminent researchers of the American Congress, they saw the national legislature as reasonably effective and acceptably representative."
"2","No longer. The very title of their new book proclaims it as a despairing screed on the failings of the contemporary Congress. Half of the volume is devoted to “the problem,” with chapter titles using condemnatory words—“hostage taking,” “dysfunction,” and “fiasco.” In the book's second half, they propose extensive changes in U.S. politics, yet pessimistically doubt that the nation will soon “accomplish sweeping change, at least in a way that will recreate a functional and legitimate political process” (p. 198)."
"3","Mann and Ornstein find two sources for the current congressional disaster. The first is theoretical, a misunderstanding of American institutions. Congress is attempting to operate a parliamentary form of government in a constitutional system of separation of powers, “a formula for willful obstruction and policy irresolution” (p. xiii). The second cause is practical politics. Deliberately rejecting the typical “balanced” pose, they place blame squarely on the contemporary Republican party, characterizing it as “ideologically extreme; scornful of compromise;…unpersuaded by facts, evidence, and science; and dismissive of the legitimacy of its political opposition” (p. xiv)."
"4","These failings are illustrated by retelling the recent history of Congress, from Newt Gingrich's combative stance in the administration of Bill Clinton through the budget battles, refusal to approve presidential appointments, and the debt default crisis in the current Congress. Mann and Ornstein attempt to explain these legislative deadlocks by examining deeper causes, such as partisan realignment in the electorate, the rise of movement conservatism, polarization in the mass media accompanied by Internet and blog communication, and distortions in campaign finance stemming from the flood of right‐wing money released by the Citizens United decision.         "
"5","To heal the ills of the American polity, the authors develop a broad reform program. They dismiss such “bromides” as a new third party, a balanced‐budget amendment, term limits, and public financing of elections. Instead, they seek ways to reclaim the dominance of moderation in our parties and formal institutions. Among the most far‐reaching proposals: compulsory voting, citizen control of redistricting, open primaries, a real separation between independent and candidate campaign expenditures, government overmatching of individual election contributions, restrictions on the Senate filibuster, expediting Senate action on presidential appointments, and shifting some legislative powers to the executive branch."
"6","That is an extensive and ambitious agenda, well‐argued and potentially a substantial improvement in our current politics of deadlock and disarray. Worthy as these reforms might be, the authors also fall short practically and theoretically. They cannot answer a critical practical question: why would an extremist Republican Party agree to changes that would probably work to its disadvantage? Even more fundamentally, in a Madisonian system based on ambition, why would power‐seeking individuals and institutions agree to such changes?"
"7","On the theoretical level, Mann and Ornstein echo a common comment, that the present discontents provide an empirical rebuttal to the famous APSA program of a “More Responsible Two‐Party System.” But the comparison is misplaced, because the APSA report envisaged parties that were built on citizen participation, programmatic dialogue, and respect for both parties and voters. We do not have that system now, as we veer toward an oligarchy where unrestrained wealth dominates elections and denigrates citizenship. Instead of democratic accountability, we have only faceless competition between one irresponsible party and one incapable party. Going beyond this fine book, we need to reimagine the rules of the American political process."
"8","                        "
"9","GERALD M. POMPER"
"10","Rutgers University"
