"","x"
"1","In this work Torild Skard engages in an exhaustive analysis of the rise and reign of each woman to achieve top political office between 1960 and 2010. This book attempts to explain the unique characteristics of each of the women to achieve top political office, how they achieved that office, and the effect that having a woman leader had on the policies that were pursued and adopted by those governments. Frequently referencing CEDAW and the efforts of the international community to promote women in politics, this work highlights that despite these overt attempts to promote women to top political offices, the reality is that, frequently, women achieve these offices as a result of coincidence and good timing. Despite the exhaustive nature of this book, it remains accessible to the average reader, requiring little is expected in regards to the history of any of the covered regions or countries."
"2","Despite the accessibility of this book, three weaknesses present themselves that could have been avoided. First, Skard's work is almost entirely atheoretical. At no point are her expectations clearly defined and generalizations, when they appear, are reserved for the final chapters. Additionally, the atheoretical nature of this work means that many of the contributions that have been made regarding the contributions of women in government more broadly, that may help address many of the research questions that have been outlined here. This oversight is perhaps best exemplified by the discussion of female prime ministers, that can not be fully understood without first exploring the factors that best lend themselves to women members of parliament."
"3","Second, and as a result of the atheoretical nature of the book, little generalizability is available to the reader. Consequently, as the reader moves through each case it is challenging to discern which factors are unique and which play a larger role in explaining the advancement of women to top political offices. Outside of highlighting unique challenges of presidential systems, little attention is paid to party structure, the number of parties active in a particular state, and even electoral rules which may have profound consequences on the amount of competition that women must overcome in order to achieve top political offices."
"4","Third, and to a lesser extent than the previous two shortfalls, there is a considerable amount of ambiguity in the application of some vocabulary. This is particularly evident in the author's placement of political parties, and their female politicians, on a left‐right ideological spectrum. It is not clear whether the placement of these parties is based on factors specific to a specific state and, thus, makes comparison of the policy pursuits of varying women challenging. Furthermore, little detail is given into the specific policy goals of women's movements active in a number of regions. Again, this makes comparison of the extent to which women in top political positions truly advanced women's rights and standing in society, as the significance of specific policies will vary greatly based on state and region. These problems with ambiguity and specification further highlight the previous shortcoming by complicating across state comparison less apparent."
"5","In spite of the previous shortcomings, this book is not without its merits. Skard presents an exhaustive work detailing the specific factors that have led each of the women to achieve their state's highest political office. As a result, this work provides a great introduction to female political leaders, especially for those previously unfamiliar with this area of research."
"6","            "
"7","LIAM PRINCE"
"8","Georgia State University"
