"","x"
"1","President Barack Obama's executive action on immigration that granted temporary legal status to an estimated five million undocumented immigrants set off a heated debate about the use (and potential abuse) of executive action. The announcement came on the heels of a stinging electoral defeat for Democrats in which Republicans padded their majority in the House and took control of the Senate. Confronting an unlikely compromise on immigration legislation in Congress before he leaves office, Obama turned to his unilateral authority to ensure a significant policy accomplishment. Although it was completed before Obama's announcement, Genevieve M. Kehoe's book offers much insight into the motivations behind Obama's actions and those of previous presidents, American and otherwise."
"2","Kehoe seeks to challenge the conventional wisdom that presidents are rendered lame ducks near the end of their tenures in office and effectively become unproductive policymakers. She points out that, “Indeed, there is no scholarly consensus that the lame duck status exists at all” (p. 27). Instead, she argues that as presidents reach the end of their time in office, their motivations change from concerns about survival (reelection) to legacy. To bolster their legacies, presidents turn to their “proactive powers” by increasing their reliance on decrees, which include executive orders, proclamations, and memoranda, to realize their policy goals."
"3","To support Kehoe's theory of terminal logic behavior, she analyzes U.S. presidential decrees from 1977 to 2009, encompassing the administrations of Jimmy Carter through George W. Bush. As Kehoe rightly notes, some types of executive actions have received more attention from political scientists over the last decade, such as executive orders, than other types such as memoranda. But in some cases, even memoranda address weighty issues, such as funding support for research involving fetal tissue under the Bill Clinton administration. Kehoe identifies the final 10 weeks between the election of the president's successor and the inauguration as the key period when outgoing presidents are most likely to boost their executive actions. This is when the outgoing administration begins working with the transition team of the successor and the president's impending departure becomes imminent."
"4","The findings from the statistical analysis largely back up the predictions under terminal logic behavior in foreign, domestic, and environmental policy. Although Kehoe accounts for other key time periods, such as the final two years in office, the surge in executive actions is most pronounced in the final 10 weeks."
"5","Empirical studies of the presidency usually focus solely on the U.S. case, which is the primary focus of this book as well, but Kehoe also extends the application of terminal logic behavior to presidents in Brazil and Argentina, two countries with presidential systems similar to that of the United States. Although the analysis runs into methodological obstacles in these countries that make more rigorous statistical analysis problematic, meticulous case studies of each country reveal that the end‐of‐term surge in executive actions is not unique to the United States, particularly in the last month of office."
"6","The book is an important contribution to the study of executive behavior and pushes the literature forward on how institutions such as term limits shape executive actions. In addition, the application to non‐U.S. presidential systems subjects the perspective to a higher level of scrutiny than is typically used."
"7","Even though the book was published before Obama's controversial immigration actions, it serves as a powerful lens through which to view his remaining time in office, as well as future presidents in the United States and abroad. Kehoe concludes with perhaps a prescient window into what is yet to come: “Undoubtedly, an end‐of‐tenure Obama may be the most aggressive end‐of‐tenure president that we have seen yet” (p. 171)."
"8","                        "
"9","JEFF CUMMINS"
"10","California State University, Fresno"
