"","x"
"1","Never mind the title, this book is not political biography. Biographies generally follow a fairytale format: from humble circumstance, a hero of distinguished ancestry goes on adventures—some wins, some losses—dies a remarkable death, and teaches us valuable morals. Yet in this case, exploits are not chronicled comprehensively across time and space, and the life cycle of the protagonist is obscure. The examples examined are almost exclusively negative, within the last 20 years, involve the United States and Israel, and do not track the intellectual, institutional, and material forces that impacted democratic peace theory's (DPT) success. The moral is also hazy."
"2","Instead, Piki Ish‐Shalom's book is something much more interesting. It is essentially a meditation on how theory injures people and how to ameliorate that. He argues that DPT led to deleterious outcomes (for example, debacles in Afghanistan and Iraq) because the theory has strong rhetorical capital, politicians misused it, and theorists let them get away with it. Rhetorical capital, by the way, is “the structural duality of accessibility and incomprehensibility overlaid with the prestige of objectivity, as well as other features specific to particular theories” (p. 28). His solution is to forsake objectivity and embrace normativity. Theorist‐citizens should shun the policy world and channel their labors into civil society, “not by imposing answers, and not so much by coaching them [citizens]… but by the nourishment of asking questions, of doubting, and no less important, encouraging them to assume responsibilities” (p. 193)."
"3","Lamentably, the book misses its marks. Theoretically, it offers little new about why the political fortunes of theories vary. Other authors' arguments make appearances, but seldom in ways that explain why theories are abused. Causal priority is the casualty. Conceptually, rhetorical capital has promise but is so underspecified as to be vacuous. Any tool that helps can hurt, yet the author proffers no useful distinctions to avert harm."
"4","Empirically, the evidence of the book is a just‐so story. Without causal priority, rival views, and some sort of measurement, it is impossible to support the main claims. Besides what is missing, what is present is sometimes shaky. Malign motives are imputed to politicians without evidence. Erik Gartzke is castigated for policy advocacy when he has written about his mild aversion toward scholarly activism, and has never held a political post (disclosure: I worked for him). Meanwhile, Michael Doyle's admirable policy service goes unmentioned."
"5","Normatively, the book is inert. The truth may not be simple, but to be politically usable it has to be. Piki Ish‐Shalom issues no standards for when theories are oversimplified (pp. 191, 194), and does not discuss penalties for when they are. He claims that only politically active theorists are responsible for their theories, but only collectively responsible. Such counsel is inconsequential. We have yet to witness a political debate in which “objectivity” was decisive or even prominent—to say nothing of theorists' (active, collective, or otherwise) opinions. Putting so much weight on theory and theorists is a mistake you need a PhD to make."
"6","This partial and vague account is a shame because Ish‐Shalom is onto something. Theory can enslave and emancipate. Theories deserve biographies. Inventors are somewhat responsible for their inventions (they certainly accept the upsides, cf. Alfred Nobel). Yet responsibility is elusive because the world is complex, voters and politicians are busy, innovations happen simultaneously, and all theories have anomalies. Nevertheless, we must do our best to minimize agony and error, or—failing that—to make folly bleed."
"7","                        "
"8","JOSEPH M. PARENT"
"9","University of Miami"
