"","x"
"1","The best scholarship explores compelling topics, offers provocative, often counterintuitive arguments, and does so in a timely manner. Typically, political science research fails on one or more counts. Not so with Naomi Murakawa's The First Civil Right, which explores the policy and political underpinnings of U.S. mass incarceration. Given Murakawa's exhaustive research, she clearly began researching the book years ago. Yet it could hardly have arrived at a more opportune time.         "
"2","“One black man in the White House, one million black men in the Big House” (p. 1), she begins; indeed, this is a common and bitter lament inside the burgeoning prison system that Murakawa examines. As the millennium dawned, blacks were eight times likelier than whites to be incarcerated, up from thrice as likely in 1969."
"3","Many view Richard M. Nixon's presidency as an inflection point. His 1968 law and order message, delivered amid widespread urban unrest, was thinly veiled racism designed to woo anxious whites, and his 1972 “Southern strategy” aimed at former George Wallace voters was even less subtle. Conservative efforts to conflate black civil rights with criminality are well documented, from Ronald Reagan's references to “strapping young bucks” and “welfare queens” driving Cadillacs to buy T‐bone steaks with their food stamps to George H. W. Bush lampooning Michael Dukakis as a pushover for black criminals such as the furloughed Willie Horton."
"4","Murakawa's significant contribution is not to parrot this conventional wisdom but to upend it. First, she shows how postwar racial liberals built the scaffolding on which conservative law and order strategies laid, and then she analyzes how liberals' craven latter‐day political calculations exacerbated the policy impacts of conservative strategies. “The United States did not face a crime problem that was racialized; it faced a race problem that was criminalized” (p. 3), she argues, and then she sets about proving it."
"5","Murakawa contends that postwar racial liberalism conceptualizes racism as psychological and specific, not structural and systemic. Liberals attributed black lawlessness to rage at white racism. Unfortunately, that explanation reinforced the very image used to rationalize white supremacy. “By making political protest an explosive emotion that extended to violence, crime, and riots” (p. 13), she writes, “liberals . . . blurred together organized civil disobedience, street crime, and riots into one mess of psychological disorder” (p. 14). This obscured broader critiques of racism as part of a global capitalist framework and shaped the prescribed solution: a color‐blind society. In this paradigm, “racist violence became arbitrary violence” (p. 11): irrational, individual racist acts would be criminalized, and a modernized, color‐blind criminal justice machine would eliminate extralegal excesses (lynching) by reducing police, prosecutorial, and judicial discretion."
"6","But this approach backfired disastrously. Examining crime policy in four domains—law enforcement funding, sentencing guidelines, mandatory minimums, and the death penalty—Murakawa describes how (sometimes) well‐intentioned liberals paradoxically fostered carceral state development."
"7","Murakawa documents the ways in which liberal efforts to provide procedural protections to the disadvantaged unwittingly fostered carceral development. For instance, Senator Edward Kennedy initially conceived of the U.S. Sentencing Commission as a means to reduce sentences and racial inequities; instead, its incorporation of mandatory minimums into a larger sentencing grid ended up increasing other sentences proportionally. Liberals also backed increased funding for police professionalization, which they hoped would reduce arbitrary state brutality but instead helped institutionalize a police state. When you are a hammer, everything looks like a nail, and the more funding police departments received, the more citizens were swept into the system. More offenders required more prisons, thus empowering correctional officers' unions, which muscled through California's notorious “Three Strikes” policy, which has occasioned life sentences for petty thievery. Murakawa also explores negative feedback loops, that is, felon disfranchisement and hyperaggressive policing reducing civic engagement by citizens who are apt to support anticarceral candidates."
"8","Other liberal law and order projects were less naive but no less harmful. Democrats spent the 1980s struggling to shed the cartoonishly liberal McGovernite image, outbidding Republicans with proposals to make new crimes eligible for mandatory minimums and the death penalty. Their cynicism is striking, particularly given the policy impact on their party's staunchest constituency, African Americans. Following the 378–16 House passage of the 1986 Anti‐Drug Abuse Act, which expanded mandatory minimums, one House Democrat observed that anti‐drug legislation was “out of control . . . but of course I'm for it” (p. 118). Even civil rights icon John Lewis capitulated to the frenzy, albeit less consequentially: he challenged his 1986 opponent to a drug test and offered up his own clean sample."
"9","In pursuit of color‐blind justice, Murakawa argues, Democrats debated how “best” to operate the carceral state rather than question its fundamental premises (p. 17). When liberals reduced the disparity between the amount of crack cocaine and powder cocaine needed to trigger mandatory minimums from 100:1 to 18:1, reformers claimed victory, but reactions among my comrades at a southeast Kentucky prison were more muted—perhaps like Murakawa's. “This s— isn't even retroactive,” lamented my cellmate. “Doesn't do s— for me.” The legislation did not shrink mandatory minimums, did not apply to anyone already sentenced, and retained unequal treatment for those caught with powder (mostly white) and those with crack (mostly black)."
"10","Giddy commentators herald the arrival of a criminal justice reform “moment.” They cite encouraging state‐level changes, federal directives instructing prosecutors to seek lighter sentences, and recently filed bipartisan legislation that would reduce mandatory minimums, add expungement opportunities, ban employment discrimination against ex‐offenders, and restore voting rights."
"11","Many conservatives have embraced reform. All three main Republican factions—Wall Street, Main Street, and Easy Street—have reason to support reform. Fiscal conservatives realize how much we spend to incarcerate; religious conservatives seek to save souls; and libertarians chafe at intrusive surveillance and draconian drug laws."
"12","Democrats remain split, constrained by correctional employee unions that warily eye disruptive reforms. As Upton Sinclair said, “It is impossible to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on him not understanding it.” Even some young progressive heroes such as California attorney general Kamala Harris, who was recently caught keeping eligible parolees incarcerated so they could fight forest fires, have mixed records. Murakawa's persuasive historical revision should remind anticarceral activists that with friends like these, they do not need enemies."
"13","                        "
"14","JEFFREY SMITH"
"15","The New School"
