"","x"
"1","How can a society that espouses the virtue of democratic representation simultaneously empower an unelected judiciary to strike down acts of its elected legislature? In his new book, Martin H. Redish proposes that, far from weakening America's representative democracy, this supposed dilemma actually facilitates its long‐term vitality."
"2","The titular paradox posited by Redish is that in order for representative democracy under the U.S. Constitution to flourish, ultimate interpretative and enforcement power must be vested in a judiciary that is prophylactically insulated from popular pressure. He contends, conjuring Alexander Hamilton in Federalist, No. 78, that any meaningful restrictions on government power are effectively null if ruling majorities themselves pass judgment on the constitutionality of their actions."
"3","Throughout, Redish's textualist arguments tend to proceed with an inevitable logical flow that would be at home in a high‐quality legal brief or law school seminar. He makes perhaps the timeliest of these arguments late in the book. Chapter 6 contends that the suspension clause of Article I, Section 9 of the Constitution—that is, the government's power to suspend habeas corpus in times of rebellion or invasion—stands in conflict with the Fifth Amendment's due process guarantees. Partly because of the temporal ordering of the ratification of these provisions, it is reasonable to conclude that the suspension clause is superseded by the Fifth Amendment and rendered effectively void. As Redish notes, this argument seems to be seldom made. Yet given contemporary concerns over habeas petitions by suspected terrorists, creeping authoritarianism worldwide, and the limits of executive power in the United States, this chapter is timely, cogent, original, and powerfully argued."
"4","These strengths aside, the overarching argument presented also includes a nontrivial deficiency. Redish takes the sanguine position that the institutional setup defined by the constitutional text effectively checks the legislative and executive branches by allowing the judiciary to declare void statutes and actions it deems not compliant with the Constitution."
"5","Yet this supposedly crucial defiance of the majoritarian branches exists more in theory than in reality. Political scientists have demonstrated three empirical regularities that undercut this central proposition. First, the U.S. Supreme Court also exercises judicial review with the approval of ruling majorities, who at times prefer a nonlegislative means for removing policy obstacles. Second, the Supreme Court is far likelier to invalidate statutes that enjoy little support from elected officials, compared with well‐supported statutes. Third, when the Supreme Court is formally threatened by another branch—that is, Congress—the court responds by exercising judicial review less frequently in the immediately subsequent years."
"6","These findings underscore Robert Dahl's evergreen point about the Supreme Court's place in American politics. By virtue of empowering the elected branches with judicial appointments, “the policy views dominant on the Court are never for long out of line with the policy views dominant among the lawmaking majorities of the United States” (Dahl, “Decision‐Making in a Democracy: The Supreme Court as a National Policy‐Maker,” Journal of Public Law 6: 279–295, at 285). And even when these views do diverge, the court can be cowed by saber rattles from its elected counterparts. Therefore, while the institutional setup prescribed by the Constitution's text may indeed be necessary to induce countermajoritarian judicial independence, it is not sufficient.         "
"7","                        "
"8","MATTHEW P. HITT"
"9","Colorado State University"
