"","x"
"1","In the opening chapters of her book, Sonia Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley quotes former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton warning of a potential biological weapon in December 2011: “a crude, but effective, terrorist weapon can be made using a small number of widely available pathogens inexpensive equipment, and college‐level chemistry and biology” (p. 17). This statement reiterates a commonly held belief among policymakers and analysts that the threat of a biological weapons attack is increasingly likely—even imminent—because of the ever‐lower barriers to entry and increasing availability of scientific knowledge and material. And yet, those who have issued such dire assessments in the past are forced to confront an interesting and important puzzle: according to Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley, no terrorist group or state has yet to seize on these advances to produce an effective, working biological weapon. The question for scholars and practitioners in the field of nonproliferation is why such a compelling case made in theory has such little empirical support in practice."
"2","It is precisely this “bioproliferation puzzle” that Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley aims to answer in her book Barriers to Bioweapons: The Challenges of Expertise and Organization for Weapons Development. Drawing on concepts developed across fields, her answer is straightforward and compelling: despite widely shared beliefs among analysts and policymakers, the successful development of a biological weapon requires more than easy access to biomaterials, scientific data, and equipment (“material accumulation”); it also requires overcoming the key challenge of effectively using these materials once procured. Thus, the barriers to bioweapons are not found in the formative stage of a program but in the key “sustenance phase,” when work turns to processing fragile and unpredictable bioagents. Here, a combination of what Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley classifies as “endogenous factors” (organizational and managerial factors) and “exogenous factors” (the level of political priority and intrusion, economic circumstances, the location of the program, and the level of foreign technical assistance) interact in complicated ways to determine the timing and success of a program. In theory, states and terrorist groups seeking bioweapons will be successful when they integrate these two sets of variables to create a stable environment for fruitful scientific interaction with limited intervention.         "
"3","Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley applies these theoretical concepts to analyze five case studies of bioweapons programs: the United States, the Soviet Union, Iraq, South Africa, and Aum Shinrikyo. Through an impressive combination of more than 50 interviews conducted with former bioweapons scientists in the United States, Russia, and Kazakhstan from 2008 to 2012 and an analysis of published information, Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley explores different combinations of her key variables to show how they interact to effect each program's pace and outcome."
"4","What should policymakers take away from this book? First and foremost, Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley's research clearly suggests that analysts have at times overestimated the risk of biological weapons proliferation by underappreciating the barriers that emerge after the initial knowledge and resources are acquired. But Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley goes further in her final chapter, making four specific policy recommendations that include (1) fashioning more effective policies of bioweapons dissuasion, (2) adjusting current nonproliferation and counterproliferation policies, (3) developing more appropriate threat assessment tools, and (4) improving the policies dealing with biological knowledge dissemination."
"5","The book also raises some important questions about how future research on biological weapons proliferation should progress. For example, if Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley is correct that no terrorist group or state has yet to produce a working bioweapon, then we have little to no variation on the dependent variable with which to test hypotheses about the ultimate success of programs. This raises a second challenge of how we should operationalize “success.” Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley defines it as producing a weapon “that when delivered can produce mass‐casualty effects, not simply highly localized contamination” (p. 179 n. 4). However, one might argue that the latter is a successful attempt. Furthermore, as in the case of nuclear weapons, a program may successfully produce technological advances without the demonstrated use of those advances. Finally, Ben Ouagrham‐Gormley's research raises the question of whether “a weapons program should be viewed as an integrated system” (p. 63), which is not amenable to more systematic analysis in which the causal effects of specific parts can be evaluated independently."
"6","These issues not withstanding, this is an overall excellent book that makes a significant contribution to the study of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. To date, existing research has overwhelmingly focused on the causes of nuclear weapons proliferation, while we know substantially less about the causes of chemical and biological weapons proliferation. This book represents an important and welcome step toward addressing that gap."
"7","                        "
"8","NEIL NARANG"
"9","University of California, Santa Barbara"
