"","x"
"1","In February 2016, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee that “Al‐Qa'ida's affiliates have proven resilient and are positioned to make gains in 2016, despite counterterrorism pressure that has largely degraded the network's leadership in Afghanistan and Pakistan.” This assessment, coming after nearly 15 years of global counterterrorism efforts led by the United States, was surely disheartening to many who heard it. Yet Barak Mendelsohn, in the conclusion to his penetrating analysis, published just a month before Clapper's testimony, argues that “Al‐Qaeda's position is weaker than anytime since it became a household name worldwide, synonymous with non‐state terrorism” (p. 211)."
"2","How to resolve this seeming paradox? Mendelsohn offers a powerful explanation by combining a theoretical framework for considering the strategic choices of a terrorist group seeking to expand with careful empirical examinations of al Qaeda's expansion. Mendelsohn observes that groups seeking to expand generally seek to do so by drawing on available resources to grow organically “by forming cells and carrying out attacks in new locations” (p. 35). Yet in some instances, terrorist groups seek to expand by developing relationships with other terrorist groups. Expansion through forming relationships with other terrorist groups can follow one of four basic patterns, according to Mendelsohn: absorption, branching out, unification, and an umbrella group. Absorption is a straightforward takeover, whether hostile or not. Unification, in contrast, is a meeting of the minds requiring genuine compatibility between groups. An umbrella group (or front) is relatively easy to proclaim but has little direct impact on organizational behavior."
"3","Branching out, or franchising, offers a great deal of flexibility, allowing a terrorist group to draw on existing local organizations to expand while remaining in charge of the overall strategic effort. Yet this choice carries risks, as Mendelsohn describes. The lack of control over terrorist “branches” can lead to strategic discord or even a revolt by one of the branches."
"4","The risks of branching out make it a puzzling choice for al Qaeda, which began to branch out soon after the 11 September 2001 attacks. Mendelsohn delves deeply into the strategic, ideological, and organizational factors that drove al Qaeda to branch out. The 11 September attacks, he argues, were a major miscalculation for the group, as the United States’ response was far more effective than anticipated. Yet if the group wanted to maintain its new found centrality in the jihadi universe it had to expand—so branching out became the only feasible answer to this dilemma. The flaws in this strategy became apparent in Iraq and later Syria, where al Qaeda's local franchise eventually grew so powerful that it first argued strategy with al Qaeda's central leadership before functionally becoming the rival Islamic State, leaving al Qaeda “upstaged,” as Mendelsohn argues."
"5","Mendelsohn persuasively concludes that al Qaeda Central may therefore be doomed to a continued decline even if Clapper's assessment of the continued resilience of its franchises proves correct. If there is a weakness in the book, it is the relatively short shrift given to the latest franchise, al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS). While this is understandable, as AQIS was only announced in 2014, it nonetheless may represent more than just a “rearguard battle” (p. 195) by al Qaeda Central. In October 2015, the United States destroyed an AQIS training camp in Kandahar, Afghanistan, that was the largest such camp discovered since 2001. Yet this is only a minor quibble with an outstanding book with both academic and policy relevance."
"6","                        "
"7","AUSTIN LONG"
"8","Columbia University"
