"","x"
"1","Seventy percent of Taiwan's total investment now goes to China, which more than a million Taiwanese also call home. And more than 20 percent of Taiwan's trade is with China. At the same time, the island nation continues to experience China as the consummate existential threat. This book addresses this central paradox in East Asia. Much of the literature, influenced by Albert O. Hirschman's National Power and the Structure of Foreign Trade (1945), looks at cross‐Strait economic relations as a case of China's geoeconomics. Instead, Syaru Shirley Lin creatively frames the issue as Taiwan's China dilemma, investigating how Taiwan struggles to manage globalization without Sinification.         "
"2","She views national identity “as the foundation of all the material and nonmaterial concerns that lead to formulation of policy” (p. 20). It is no easy task to pin down how contestation between Taiwanese and Chinese identity produces Taiwan's cross‐Strait economic policy. But Lin's analytical eclecticism complements constructivism with rationalist theories as well as attention to domestic and international politics. She applies her analytical framework to four policy episodes spanning the past three decades, beginning with Lee Teng‐hui's restrictive “no haste” policy in 1996 and ending with Ma Ying‐jeou's push for the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement (ECFA) in 2010."
"3","In each episode, Lin shows how contestation between Taiwanese and Chinese identity prioritized different economic interests in growth, equity, and stability. More importantly, Lin offers a detailed account of the prevailing policy choice and debate among the four options ranging from extensive restriction to extensive liberalization. Her case studies on Taiwan's petrochemical and semiconductor industry investment in China bring to light what is at stake in the policy debates."
"4","Lin finds, compared with the intensely contested identity politics in the 1990s, that the Taiwanese have now settled on either Taiwanese identity or dual Chinese and Taiwanese identity. Chinese identity is disappearing among the younger generations. A study in 2013 showed that 90 percent of Taiwanese under age 34 identified themselves as Taiwanese (p. 164). And identity is no longer defined along the ethnic divide between mainlanders and indigenous Taiwanese. Rather, Taiwanese identity is based on democratic values and institutions and a shared “way of life.” On the question of Taiwan's future national status, few now opt for reunification, and a strong majority support the status quo, whereby Taiwan maintains its de facto independence."
"5","What emerges from the book is a nuanced picture of the impact of identity on economic policy. Policy preferences are not neatly aligned with the political party or one's stand on reunification. In certain cases, independence advocates may support economic liberalization. The pro‐independence Democratic Progressive Party Resident, Chen Sui‐bian, started with a liberalization policy and then moved to a more restrictive investment policy toward China. As Taiwanese identity takes hold, the salience of identity in policy debate diminishes. According to Lin, identity was not a major factor in the three‐week‐long Sunflower movement against the ECFA and the service trade agreement in March and April 2014. For her, “the largest student‐led protest in Taiwan's history” (p. 199) was against the deleterious impact of globalization and the Kuomintang government's lack of transparency in negotiating the agreements."
"6","This highly original book disentangles much of the puzzle regarding Taiwan's cross‐Strait economic policy. China's use of geoeconomic instruments for national reunification seems to have failed. Those worried about Taiwan's fate under China's economic embrace should be heartened by Taiwan's success in preserving and consolidating its identity. But if identity is a social construct open for evolution (p. 23), then Taiwanese identity now may be stable but is hardly settled."
"7","                        "
"8","YONG DENG"
"9","U.S. Naval Academy"
