"","x"
"1","Daniel S. Markey's recent book constitutes an impassioned plea for sustaining a strategic relationship with Afghanistan even as the United States seeks to disengage itself from that country. Markey makes a plausible argument for maintaining this relationship, given the significant stakes that are involved. He contends that the United States needs to work with Pakistan because of at least three compelling reasons. In his view, in the absence of American vigilance toward and engagement with the country, al Qaeda and its associates could reconstitute themselves, that nuclear weapons or materials within Pakistan might end up in hostile hands and instability within Pakistan, given its geostrategic location could adversely affect the future of American interests in Asia."
"2","All the reasons that he adduces have a certain intuitive and practical appeal. However, it is also possible to argue, based upon the long historical record of the U.S.–Pakistan relationship that it may not be possible for the United States to realize these goals despite the best of intentions and the most adroit diplomacy. To understand the likely difficulties that any American administration will encounter in attempting to pursue these goals, it is necessary to make a brief foray into the deeply problematic history of U.S.–Pakistan relations."
"3","Few U.S. bilateral ties have been fraught with as much promise or tension as the U.S.–Pakistan relationship. It was forged in the early days of the Cold War but based upon dubious premises. As the noted American diplomatic historian, Robert McMahon had argued in a trenchant book, The Cold War on the Periphery, it was built upon shaky foundations. Deft Pakistani diplomats successfully inveigled U.S. policymakers, who knew little about South Asia, into forging a putatively anti‐communist alliance. However, as both McMahon and, more recently, the former Pakistani ambassador to the United States, Husain Haqqani, in his book, Magnificent Delusions, have ably demonstrated, the sole Pakistani motivation for drawing the United States into the region was to balance Indian military power.         "
"4","Despite this fundamental mismatch of expectations, in the initial days of the Cold War, the U.S.–Pakistan alliance served both sides well. Pakistan benefited enormously from the economic and military largesse of the United States. The United States, in turn, had access to vital military bases in the country, from which it could carry out electronic and aerial surveillance of critical parts of then‐Soviet Central Asia. After this promising start, despite India's obvious discomfiture with it, the relationship ran aground in the mid‐sixties as incompatible strategic perspectives were laid bare during the Indo‐Pakistani war of 1965. Following its outbreak, the United Stateshad imposed an arms embargo on the region, thereby infuriating both states, albeit for very different reasons."
"5","From that time onward, the U.S.–Pakistan nexus became strictly episodic and remained derivative of U.S. global interests. Pakistani policymakers, while complaining of American fickleness, nevertheless cooperated with the United States on various occasions with the promise of suitable material inducements. Unfortunately, neither side proved willing to confront the basic lack of alignment of strategic interests. Not surprisingly, when particular exigencies were met, the dearth of overlapping concerns became evident, leading to mutual disillusionment and a fresh round of recriminations. There is little or no evidence today that the United States and Pakistan are any closer in their views on vital questions pertaining to regional security and domestic governance."
"6","Markey's book shows more than a passing familiarity with this prolonged cycle of U.S. engagement and disengagement with Pakistan. However, he still insists that, given the stakes involved, it is both possible and desirable for the United States to remain committed to this relationship. What is ultimately unpersuasive in this otherwise workmanlike analysis is how the United States can craft policies that might assuage deep‐seated Pakistani misgivings and align mutual interests that may not be as compatible as he deems possible."
"7","                        "
"8","SUMIT GANGULY"
"9","Indiana University, Bloomington"
