"","x"
"1","This book asks two questions: who votes (and who does not), and does this difference matter? Updating Raymond E. Wolfinger and Steven J. Rosenstone's 1980 classic Who Votes?, Jan E. Leighley and Jonathan Nagler find that the answer to those questions has actually changed quite a bit over the past 40 years.         "
"2","Most of the book focuses on demographic and institutional determinants of turnout. The first two empirical chapters analyze how the participation of core demographic groups has changed over time, focusing on education, income, race/ethnicity, age, and gender. While many of the findings will be familiar, several of these analyses will surprise even many political scientists. For example, the black–white turnout gap has been shrinking for more than a decade (so it is not simply an Obama effect), and the rich–poor turnout gap has not changed very much in the past 40 years."
"3","The authors next turn to an examination of the effects of election administration laws on turnout, such as election day registration, motor‐voter laws, and early voting. They find that while some electoral reforms have increased participation (most notably, absentee voting), overall, the effects are modest. As they note, although future reforms could increase turnout somewhat, it would be on the order of a few percentage points—far too little to close the participatory gap between the United States and other advanced industrialized countries."
"4","Leighley and Nagler also demonstrate that when voters are offered a choice, not an echo, they are more likely to turn out and vote. One of the most intriguing findings in Chapter 5 is that higher‐income voters perceive much greater policy distance between the candidates than lower‐income voters do (see figures 5–1 and 5–2, pp. 126–127). Whether this is simply due to demographic differences between those groups is unclear, but nevertheless, it poses an important, and troubling, question for those who hope to address economic inequality through electoral participation."
"5","In the book's final empirical chapter, the authors tackle the second major puzzle of their book: do these demographic differences in turnout matter? Unlike previous studies, they find that they do. They look at policy positions, rather than candidate choice or partisanship, to search for differences. They consistently find that on economic issues in particular, there are large differences between voters and nonvoters, with nonvoters being considerably more economically liberal than voters. These findings will no doubt spur future work on the redistributive consequences of unequal turnout."
"6","If I were to offer a criticism, I would say that the book tends to downplay the importance of mobilization in shaping turnout (although in fairness, this is a theme the authors have discussed in earlier works). In particular, I suspect that some of the demographic gaps based on education and income they find are due in part to persistent patterns of mobilization by the parties and various interest groups. Future work, especially considering the economic inequality, will no doubt want to explore this more fully."
"7","Overall, the book makes an important contribution to the literature on turnout in American politics. The thorough review of demographic correlates of voter turnout make it a valuable resources for scholars interested in the topic, and the book's accessible style and graphical presentation of results will make it a good choice for intermediate and advanced undergraduate courses. Further, given the strong effects of income, the book will also be of considerable interest to scholars focused on inequality and redistribution."
"8","                        "
"9","MATTHEW LEVENDUSKY"
"10","University of Pennsylvania"
