"","x"
"1","Trita Parsi is a controversial figure. Right‐wingers argue that as president of the National Iranian‐American Council, he is a shill for the Islamist regime in Tehran. Left‐wingers contend that he is simply exercising the normal American right to lobby, and that his ideas are worth exploring."
"2","But one gets a sense of more‐impartial analysis from this book."
"3","The book tells the story of American diplomacy toward Iran from the end of the George W. Bush administration through the Barack Obama administration, until the aftermath of the Green Revolution in 2009. It ends with a series of “lessons learned” from the failure of the United States to reach agreement with Iran on its nuclear program. It is an important story to tell, for the historical record and for its policy implications."
"4","The book is well‐researched: Parsi uses personal interviews with officials from many countries, including from the United States and Iran, and government documents accessed through Wikileaks or provided by government sources. There is a sound methodology of cross‐checking information, and appropriate acknowledgement that given the nature of the Iranian regime, more information was forthcoming from the American and European sides."
"5","Parsi does—contrary to his detractors' assumptions—criticize Iran. He condemns the undemocratic nature of the theocrats who lead the regime (p. 80), and the brutal violence of the Ahmadinejad government—backed by Supreme Leader Khamenei—against public and political rivals during the 2009 protests (pp. 89–93)."
"6","But the study, which reflects Parsi's political advocacy more broadly, still constructs a particular narrative that emphasizes American failures more than anything as the primary explanation for lack of success with Iran. This is a fair point to make, but in the manner in which it is pursued here, Parsi tries too hard to make his case, leading to contradictions and gaps in the argument."
"7","The weakest section is the discussion of Israel in chapter 2. Parsi demonstrates a minimal understanding of the structure and nature of Israeli politics, decision making, and history. He also over‐emphasizes Israel as a causal factor in the analysis. Parsi writes that “serious, concerted efforts were undertaken by Israel in the spring of 2008, pressing the U.S.” to attack Iran or support an Israeli attack (p. 28). The only evidence is a single meeting between Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and President Bush, at which Olmert “raised the issue” (p. 29). Further discussion does not provide more in the way of proof, and ignores the fact that Israeli security officials disagree over the necessity, timing, and nature of an attack on Iran."
"8","The book provides some valuable insight into American–Iranian relations that can be used by others studying the relationship and regional politics, and it tells the story—much of which was already publicly known—in one relatively smooth arc. And it does offer instruction on the necessity of taking a broad view of the global strategic puzzle, rather than just one piece of it; the importance of context and personalities; the inertia that can develop out of long‐standing policies—in short, the difficulties that leaders have to deal with in pursuing their countries' interests."
"9","Unfortunately, Parsi seems to assume that with a little more determination, the Obama administration could have bypassed these constraints. This contradicts the reminders above about circumstances beyond any one individual's ability to control. In this, the book may be an unfair depiction of reality, though the goal—reducing American–Iranian tensions—remains a worthy one."
"10","                        "
"11","BRENT E. SASLEY"
"12","University of Texas at Arlington"
