"","x"
"1","For years the United States has pressured Pakistan to conduct a military operation in North Waziristan, a part of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas where al Qaeda members, the Pakistani Taliban, and foreign jihadists roam freely."
"2","Pakistan's military never acquiesced. Many suspected this reluctance was related to its interest in maintaining links with the militant groups that could be useful to its India and Afghanistan policies. The inaction also implied that the Pakistani Taliban was not perceived as a threat to the state, which has historically used this collection of Pashtun tribes to create a buffer zone between Pakistan and Afghanistan."
"3","This past June, the military finally launched that operation, turning upside down conventional perceptions of Pakistan's national security interests. Has Pakistan finally turned the corner in its double game with militancy? Skeptics would warn against a rush to judgment. In The Warrior State: Pakistan in the Contemporary World, T.V. Paul echoes this view as one of those skeptics by unpacking the psychology behind Pakistan's relationship with militants and its other national security pathologies. He argues that the interests of the Pakistani elite—civilian and military—are far too intertwined to fix the country's problems, among them government neglect of development and socioeconomic challenges and the spread of extremism.         "
"4","Paul's most salient analysis of Pakistan's ailments is what he calls the “geopolitical curse.” Pakistan is run by an oligarchic elite with the singular objective of seeking rents from foreign partners such as the United States, China, and Saudi Arabia. Through the decades, these countries protected their respective geopolitical interests by “bailing out” Pakistan in times of crisis, thereby enabling the dysfunctional behavior of the “warrior state.”"
"5","This geopolitical curse allowed Pakistan to avoid tough decisions, one of the most pressing of which is creeping religious extremism. Paul rightly believes the military should bear the blame, having weakened Pakistan by using and misusing religion to fight its battles with India and Afghanistan. Pakistan is paying a high price for those policies today. Some of the militants it once supported have turned against the state for cooperating with the United States in the war in Afghanistan."
"6","One of the book's initial weaknesses is the contrast made between Pakistan and European war making experiences that, through the ages, engendered more positive outcomes in state building and development. Paul corrects this in the chapter “Comparing Pakistan,” in which he offers more apt comparisons in assessing Pakistan's extremist, civil‐military, and geostrategic challenges against those faced by Muslim‐majority states such as Turkey, Indonesia, and Egypt."
"7","Paul's message is generally hard to discredit, yet it falls short in one major respect. Rarely does he identify the seeds for success in Pakistan save for a few fleeting mentions of the need to invest in media, strengthen civil society, and promote pluralism. His sharp analysis and heavy tilt on the security state could have benefited from a deeper dive into the political changes under way in Pakistan."
"8","Paul fails to mention of the constitution's Eighteenth and Twentieth amendments, which rebalanced aspects of civil‐military relations and implemented other democratic reforms. Also absent is any explanation of how the Pakistan Peoples Party–led government became the first in the country's history to complete a full term in 2013."
"9","While the forces of friction still persist in Pakistan—stemming from the geopolitical curse, Islamist fundamentalism, motivations of the Pakistani elite, and foreign countries—they do so in parallel with an increasingly vibrant and vocal democratic culture. The story of the warrior state is thus incomplete without acknowledgment of these nascent but potentially promising developments."
"10","                        "
"11","SHAMILA N. CHAUDHARY"
"12","New America Foundation"
