"","x"
"1","Why have some lines of inquiry in international studies exhibited consensus in their results, while others have not? Fred Chernoff hypothesizes that the use of divergent criteria of explanation may account for differing levels of consensus: if scholars researching some phenomenon do not operate with the same standards for what constitutes a good—or a better—explanation, it may be more difficult for those scholars to agree on which of several competing explanations is the best. To evaluate this hypothesis, Chernoff canvasses scholarly work on nuclear proliferation, alliance formation, and the democratic peace, recording the explanatory criteria used in the most influential work in each line of inquiry to determine whether disagreements about criteria of explanation and a lack of consensus findings go together and whether agreements about criteria and consensus findings go together. He concludes that these associations hold and that this helps explain why democratic peace research has achieved a general consensus “with regard to the power of the liberal explanation for the behavior of democratic dyads” (p. 233), while research on the other two topics has not achieved such consensus."
"2","Chernoff makes a powerful case for the importance of “metatheory” in conducting and evaluating social scientific research. Without clarity about what constitutes a good explanation, it is more or less impossible to distinguish a well‐vetted finding from a firmly held opinion. In this respect, Chernoff's concluding admonition to scholars to make clear their explanatory criteria is a good one, even if one rejects the position that agreement between scholars on clear criteria will lead to consensus and cumulative progress. Chernoff freely admits that his study cannot definitively establish that disagreements about explanatory standards is the sole or even the most important factor hindering such progress in international studies; his claim is only that such disagreement is “one” factor. In the book's conclusion, he brings in two other factors that could plausibly account for the consensus among democratic peace scholars: the short period of time during which key issues were debated and the narrower definitions of key terms, such as “democracy” and “peace,” within the community of democratic peace scholars. Even if these other factors are more important in producing consensus, greater clarity in metatheory among scholars can only help promote more fruitful debates, as opposed to exchanges in which each interlocutor is using his or her own set of definitions and criteria."
"3","The book avoids two issues that raise broader questions about knowledge production in international studies. First, Chernoff selects the most influential work in each line of inquiry largely by looking at looking at the results of one ranking instrument—the TRIP survey of international relations scholars—and deriving from that a list of the most important journals and major graduate programs. This means that the results of Chernoff's study are heavily dependent on the criteria built into the TRIP survey, criteria that generally privilege that kind of international studies work that looks more familiar to U.S. political scientists. This may help explain why Tarak Barkawi and Mark Laffey's critical‐theoretical work on the “imperial peace” is not considered here, as such work is rarely published in those places or taught in those programs, although it is quite prominent elsewhere. Second, Chernoff claims that “if a policy is based on a flawed theory, it will succeed only by luck” (p. 1), but he does not justify this assumption, thus ignoring that a theory flawed in general might be just right for an exceptional case. And if international affairs features a high number of exceptional cases, perhaps we should reconsider the overarching drive for theoretical consensus."
"4","                        "
"5","PATRICK THADDEUS JACKSON"
"6","American University"
