"","x"
"1","This important new book starts out with the fundamentals of representation, but then takes the reader on a journey through political attitudes, preferences, ideology, and the culture war. By the end of the journey, the reader learns that “red” Americans live in a different world, with preferences and expectations different from those of “blue” Americans. David Butler and Christopher Carman's argument is not about geography, but about how the opposing camps view the role of representatives, how those representatives, in turn, respond to their constituents, and how that differing view contributes to the culture war."
"2","The distinction between delegates and trustees is fundamental to understanding what representation is all about. While delegates have to more closely hue to their constituents' preferences, trustees have more freedom to act on their own beliefs. The dilemmas posed by these differing representation styles is a lesson that most professors include in their first few lectures of any introductory political science course. That this distinction plays an important role in understanding the cultural divide between Democrats and Republicans is a new field of research to which this book makes a noteworthy contribution."
"3","Butler and Carman find that Democratic voters want their representatives to closely follow the views of their constituents (that is, act as delegates); Republican voters, on the other hand, expect their representatives to stake out firm positions and “stick to their guns” (that is, act as trustees). Although Butler and Carman have a different set‐up and explicate different consequences, the core of their argument is corroborated in Marc J. Hetherington and Jonathan D. Weller's recent book, Authoritarianism and Polarization in American Politics.         "
"4","Furthermore, politics as practiced in Washington, DC since the book was published offers even more corroboration. As the Congress and the President faced the “fiscal cliff,” public opinion polls routinely showed that Democrats expected their representatives to compromise for the benefit of the country, whereas Republicans wanted their representatives to stake out positions and stick to them even in the face of mounting pressure. What may have perplexed the consumers of the news is answered in this book: it is not that Republicans did not fear the calamities of the cliff, but that they value decisions based on principle rather than on public opinion."
"5","Butler and Carman go beyond this important finding by demonstrating that constituents get what they want: Democratic representatives are more likely to follow public opinion, whereas Republican representatives are more likely to stick to their principled stances. Both sides act as they do not necessarily because of changing pressures or mounting data, but because their constituents expect them to act in a particular way. To ignore these underlying representational preferences is to place their own reelections in jeopardy."
"6","This significant finding suggests that we need to examine the culture war not from the decisions that are made, but from the preferences over how those decisions are made. These examinations are fundamentally different. In the authors' words, “We may need to stop talking about Red and Blue states on an electoral map and start talking about Red and Blue styles of governance” (p. 70)."
"7","The book is a nice mix of complex statistical analyses, insightful anecdotes, and a breezy writing style that makes reading a book with such an important and sophisticated argument a pleasure. While a reader without two years of graduate‐level statistics may get lost at times in the book's regression equations, the authors helpfully draw the lessons, summarize the results, and place the significance of the findings in context."
"8","Trying to understand the roots of today's culture war without reading this book would be imprudent. Regrettably, the results from this book do not point to an obvious truce; rather, they suggest that the war very well may be here to stay, at least until we can reprogram how Democrats and Republicans think about representation."
"9","                        "
"10","SEAN M. THERIAULT"
"11","The University of Texas at Austin"
