"","x"
"1","Elections in a democratic system depend upon the willingness of citizens to put themselves forward for political office with no assurance of success. If the pool of possible candidates becomes too self‐limiting, then the quality of representation is imperiled. Political ambition or progressive ambition, the driving force that differentiates office seekers from everyone else, has been the focus of extensive study by political scientists. Jennifer Lawless takes the tack that the decision to even consider running for office, nascent ambition, is a subject in need of greater understanding."
"2","Most social science research focuses primarily on external structural factors that impact the individual's choice to run or not run. For example, is it open seat, does the district heavily favor/oppose the individual's political party, or what is the likelihood of strong financial support? On the basis of an extensive review of the political ambition literature, Lawless makes a strong case that the decision‐making process is two‐stage and that the first stage, entertaining the thought that running for political office is a possibility, has been a neglected area of research."
"3","The Citizen Political Ambition Survey, conducted by the author and Richard Fox, provided the empirical data for analysis of nascent ambition. The sample included individuals in law, political activism, business, and education. The first‐wave survey was done in 2001 and a second wave in 2008. In addition to the analyzing responses to the survey, the author also conducted extensive open‐ended interviews to provide some qualitative context."
"4","The analysis, both quantitative and qualitative, highlights four factors affecting nascent ambition—minority status, family dynamics, professional circumstances, and the role of political parties. Women are less likely than men, regardless of race or ethnicity, to even consider the possibility of running for office, and women who do have nascent ambition are much less likely than are men to take the next step and run for office. Individuals growing up in families in which politics pervades family interaction, who have spouses/family members that are supportive of a political campaign and have new family members are more likely to have nascent ambition. Lawyers and activists are much more likely than are business people and educators to consider running, though, as income goes up, there is a decrease in nascent ambition. In addition, individuals with experience interacting with government and politicians are more likely to think about running, while self‐perception as a quality candidate also impacts the decision. Encouragement by political party officials had a positive impact on nascent ambition, but cynicism about the political context had a negative impact."
"5","This is a thoughtful and important contribution to the study of political ambition. The analysis draws on an excellent data set and an extensive set of oral interviews. A major finding is that women, regardless of race or ethnicity, are much less likely to exhibit nascent ambition or, if they do, take the next step to run for office. The lack of female candidates has a negative impact on the overall quality of representation in government at all levels. Lawless rightly suggests that future research on political ambition should focus on factors shaping the different paths of men and women toward nascent ambition."
"6","                        "
"7","SAMUEL H. FISHER III"
"8","University of South Alabama"
