"","x"
"1","Politics in early British America was diverse. As Peverill Squire documents, there was no consensus even about what representatives should be called, with various names in use, from “Burgess” to “Deputy” (pp. 159–160). This wide‐ranging exploration of representational practices is therefore a remarkable achievement. Drawing on a huge base of qualitative and quantitative data, Squire analyzes the relationship between lawmakers and their constituents in the 13 British colonies that rebelled to form the United States. He argues that this relationship was shaped by pragmatic responses to “governing problems” (p. 2), which pushed colonial politicians to be ever more attuned to their voters’ particular interests. This practical transformation, Squire contends, underpinned the rise of “Jacksonian Democracy” (p. 8)."
"2","The book builds on Edmund Burke's distinction between the trustee and delegate models of representation, in which elected representatives either exercise individual judgment for the common good of society (trustee behavior) or seek to directly reflect the interests of those who elected them (delegate behavior). Squire argues that New England had a delegate model from its foundation but that legislative practices in other regions evolved from a trustee to a delegate model. Constituents’ growing influence over representatives reflected the fact that British America had far higher levels of enfranchisement than contemporary Europe because more men met the property qualifications (although this was more a result of expropriating indigenous land than of “economic success,” p. 29)."
"3","The book tracks the growth of electioneering and access to news, demonstrating that elections became more competitive and issue based, forcing candidates to pay attention to their constituents. It also charts the growing influence of colonial assemblies over local issues and the consequent interest that constituents had in their representatives’ votes, which was reflected in the practice of writing instructions for delegates. Finally, Squire quantifies voting and reelection records to measure legislators’ increasing attention to their constituents’ opinions."
"4","Squire comprehensively reconstructs the pressures on eighteenth‐century politicians who saw themselves as caught between “favourers of Popularity” and “Admirers of Reason and Liberty of Conscience” (p. 186). However, it is more challenging to precisely track the change from one representational model to the other during the seventeenth century, for which evidence is much more limited. Early colonial politicians likely did not see the binary between trustee and delegate in such stark terms. They were only just coming to grips with the idea of legitimate private interests, and they also lived in a world defined by multiple forms of sovereignty, such as corporations, manors, and parishes, rather than merely by the relation of the individual to the state. Equally, although Squire is correct to say that assemblies were not modeled directly after Parliament and evolved gradually, they did so in dialogue with ideas generated by England's tumultuous seventeenth‐century politics; those ideas played a crucial role in the way colonists shaped their political structures as they confronted state centralization. Squire's functional analysis of the evolving relationship between voters and their representatives can thus usefully be read alongside the rich literature on political ideology in early America."
"5","One of the greatest strengths of the book is its range across the colonies that became the United States. Squire draws subtle and revelatory distinctions among the colonies’ political cultures. Ultimately, though, he suggests that they all progressed toward U.S. democracy. One wonders whether different delegate models took root in particular contexts, in societies either with or without large enslaved populations, export agricultural economies, or extensive backcountry regions, which might explain how parts of the new nation constructed their own variants on antebellum democracy."
"6","That Squire's study sparks so many questions is a testament to its breadth and ambition. It provides an important new perspective that will encourage scholars to return to the question of precisely how political structures were built in early America."
"7","                        "
"8","PAUL MUSSELWHITE"
"9","Dartmouth College"
