"","x"
"1","Scholarship on the Tea Party remains prevalent following the 2016 presidential election, but recent work comes with considerable overlap. Melissa Deckman offers a much‐needed departure from exiting literature by arguing that women hold a uniquely new position within the Tea Party. However, her analysis falls short of fully interrogating why the mostly white, educated, middle‐class women of the Tea Party find the movement's call to “take their country back” so captivating."
"2","According to Deckman, the Tea Party is a vehicle for conservative women to enter politics amid traditional Republican Party gender barriers. Personal interviews illuminate several Tea Party women who have become activists and grassroots leaders, such as Jenny Beth Martin, who organized the first Tea Party rally under the “Tea Party Patriots” banner. The personal accounts of “Mama Grizzlies” are a new and intriguing contribution, and the variety of women taking leadership roles is an important and overlooked element of the Tea Party. Furthermore, Deckman claims that the active role of women in the Tea Party has a chance to shape our “perception of what constitutes women's politics,” especially if the movement is able to expand it's appeal beyond a “relatively small number of conservative women” (p. 29). Conversely, her analysis of public opinion data leads to a different interpretation."
"3","Using multiple polls, Deckman examines why masses of women support the Tea Party and how their views differ from Republican women. She posits that women support the Tea Party for a number of reasons: a moral sense of duty, pro‐family values, and a principled sense of conservatism gendered by women's experiences as mothers and wives. However, among the significant predictors of Tea Party support, antipathy toward President Barack Obama stands out. Deckman pays little attention to Obama's opposition, even as other scholarship, such as Cory Robin's The Reactionary Mind, identifies antipathy toward Obama as symbolic of reactionary attitudes opposing freedom and equality. Additionally, Christopher Parker and Matt Barreto, in Change They Can't Believe In, further explain reactionary conservatism as anxiety toward social change and central to understanding Tea Party sympathy regardless of gender.         "
"4","Much of Deckman's analysis actually suggests that reactionary conservatism is part of women's support for the Tea Party, even though she chooses to focus elsewhere. For example, anxiety toward Obama is first displayed in her interviews. Shortly after Obama's inauguration, Deckman interviewed a Tea Party blogger Keli Carender, who commented, “It wasn't until I saw the threat to our liberty embodied in one man, yes, Barack Obama, that I decided I could no longer stay quiet” (p. 30)."
"5","Expressions of anxiety toward Obama in the interviews, along with the powerful statistical effect of antipathy toward Obama on Tea Party support, suggests that reactionary attitudes warrant further consideration. In other words, once accounting for partisanship and ideology, Deckman does not explain why antipathy toward Obama remains a unique and significant factor driving Tea Party sympathy."
"6","Furthermore, when Deckman predicts women's political attitudes, Tea Party support remains a unique and significant factor while accounting for partisanship and ideology. Yet she again fails to account for the possibility that the Tea Party truly represents a vehicle for anxiety toward social change, symbolized by antipathy toward Obama. In all, Deckman's conversations with Tea Party women offer important insights into the roles that women are carving for themselves in a conservative political realm closed by patriarchal tradition, but her work lacks data‐driven evidence suggesting that gendered conservative principles and opportunity for a political voice explain why masses of Tea Party women are motivated to promote the movement's causes."
"7","                        "
"8","CHRISTOPHER C. TOWLER"
"9","Western Washington University"
