"","x"
"1","War is rare but important. Trade is increasingly central to international relations, growing in value, and thus it is important as well. Perhaps rising trade levels will help maintain world peace? In his ambitious new book, Economic Interdependence and War, Dale R. Copeland sets out to resolve an enduring debate between those who see commerce as inflammatory, or at least not particularly helpful, and the now‐dominant view that trade is pacifying. The core of this effort is acknowledged to be theoretical; Copeland correctly notes that the chief flaw (among many) in the expanding research on this subject is the lack of sufficient deductive grounding. Ideas for and against commercial peace are plausible but probably incorrect.         "
"2","How do we account for consistent but surprisingly weak evidence of a liberal commercial peace? Copeland identifies the critical “switch” determining pacific and incendiary effects of trade as expectations: what nations believe will be the case in the future. If sovereigns think that trade will be increasingly important, they cooperate. If they perceive that trade is in decline, they tend to follow other motives for conflict to political violence, even war."
"3","There is much to admire about this exhaustively researched volume. Copeland is a rarity among contemporary international relations scholars. He is thorough. He has clearly spent many hours combing various archives, and the text, except for the first few chapters, reads like the kind of historical enterprise that many in political science secretly, or perhaps not so secretly, savor. The volume includes case studies of the Russo‐Japanese War/German wars of hegemony, the prelude to World War II in Asia (two chapters), the Cold War, and European great power politics spanning the nineteenth century."
"4","Another thing that political scientists value is parsimony. We like one‐liner theories that encapsulate for us much that is approximately true about the myriad details of important processes. This is not fair to a scholar of Copeland's strengths, but it is what we want. How does the text stack up in terms of this bottom line? Certainly, what states expect to happen matters more than what they have had in the past. But this focus, overplayed by Copeland, just transfers criticism that the literature is undertheorized to the future. Either existing theories of trade and conflict are basically correct but need to be refined, or they are not adequate in their internal logic, in which case adding expectations is not a solution."
"5","It is not clear what Copeland means by expectations. The mechanism(s) by which states form beliefs about the future is not specified. The text is dismissive of game theoretic approaches (signaling), but many of the components appear again in Copeland's theory. Nor, strangely, is there much attention to beliefs about conflict. If expectations are critical for understanding the impact of trade on war, then expectations about war presumably also matter. Copeland discounts uncertainty as a cause of war, preferring instead commitment problems, although in contrast to much of the literature, the text views conflict as occurring when states cannot anticipate future trade patterns. Similarly, while trading states are said to care far into the future (zero discount factor), there is no consideration of how this might affect the decision to become a trading state. Reverse causation—conflict causing a lack of trade—is not considered. A theory that initially eschews domestic politics and preference variability later introduces both of these factors as critical to the determination of conflict."
"6","A secondary but potentially important issue involves sampling. Copeland represents the trade expectations model using asymmetric economic ties, but he focuses on great powers in evaluating his theory empirically. Great powers are arguably the least asymmetric of trade partners. The text also acknowledges from the outset that the effects of interdependence are contrasting, depending on other factors for their ultimate impact. This suggests the need to take into account interactions between variables and to assess the relative sizes of these contrasting effects. Assessing net effects of interactions is tricky. The conclusions of the text depend on logical rigor and confidence in interpretations of the qualitative cases, each of which is additionally challenged by the need to assess crosscutting tendencies."
"7","The relationship between economic interdependence and war or peace has engaged and challenged bright minds for centuries. Copeland has pushed forward the boundaries of knowledge on this important subject by highlighting problems, proposing a particular set of solutions, and inquiring about their implications. In some places, this big book can be considered the state of the art, but this just emphasizes that more remains to be done."
"8","                        "
"9","ERIK GARTZKE"
"10","University of California, San Diego"
