"","x"
"1","In this latest installment of his effort to articulate a comprehensive framework for understanding civic membership and realistically achievable, normatively desirable principles for the relationship between people and political groupings demanding allegiance against other groups, Rogers M. Smith weighs, digests, synthesizes, refines, reflects, theorizes, and proposes. The core political question of “who governs” (p. 6) raises foundational questions concerning “who can make authoritative decisions within [the group] and who can belong to it” (p. 7). Answering these requires studying “the processes through which groups are constructed, maintained, challenged, and changed” (p. 8). Smith's theoretical preoccupation here is with “coercively constituted identities” (p. 263). His policy preoccupation is with immigrants and refugees and those positioned to welcome, manage, or exclude them."
"2","Smith starts by defining and theorizing the full spectrum of “weak and narrow” to “strong and wide” conceptions of political peoplehood, including, but not limited to, nationalisms (p. 39). These “are not natural . . . [but] created by asymmetrical interactions between potential leaders and . . . members.” “[B]oth . . . have agency”—they are engaged in an “always ongoing” process of “peoplebuilding,” which involves both an aspiration to power and efforts “to promote ways of life they regard as good” (pp. 44–45)."
"3","Smith anatomatizes the peoplebuilding process, including dynamics such as the building (and destabilizing) of feelings of trust and worth and the fashioning of constitutive stories about who the people being addressed are and should aspire to be. He observes that these dynamics are as likely to require ambiguity as clarity, contradiction as consistency, emotion as rationality. He suggests that three different types of content characterize peoplebuilding stories: stories about economic power, about political power, and about the constitutive character of the group (the United States, Turkey, Austria, Israel, and other illustrations are adduced). Smith folds this into a more general “Spiral of Politics” model of political development accounting for “the possibility that the formulation of ideas,” including the full range of “empirical beliefs and normative values” that help constitute “stories of peoplehood, can be a crucial stage in [that] development” (pp. 23–24). Subsequent chapters consider the matter prismatically, modeling perpetual contestation concerning rights, meaning, and membership. The book then turns normative, arguing for fluid, “flexible,” “moderate,” “malleable,” and “multiple” forms of peoplehood (pp. 189–190). Smith argues for cosmopolitanism—but not too much: for a “transition . . . toward a world of interconnected and only ‘semi‐sovereign’ peoples” that “recognize[es] multiple, moderate, intertwined forms of peoplehood” (global ethics, dual nationalities, etc.) (p. 199). He condemns global inequality and laments directions of U.S. foreign policy but insists on realism. He ultimately alights on a theory of moderate duty concerning the most egregious externalities, emphasizing the repercussions of the violent assertions of some groups—conquest, empire—over others in ways that construct subordinated selves. His strong case is that of Mexican immigrants to the United States. Slightly down the duty scale are the United States and the Philippines, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, and Nicaragua. Then come more general issues of global inequality. Smith considers analogous possibilities in Spain, Portugal, and France, given their colonial histories."
"4","In all this, Smith seeks middle ground between particularism and universalism that recognizes and does justice to both. In “[a]ll actual societies,” the stories of peoplehood at the heart of the peoplebuilding process are both “intrinsically normative” (arising out of liberalism, republicanism, democracy, etc.) and particularistic—“blend[ing] these traditions with constitutive themes valorizing membership in their own particular community rather than another” (p. 60–61)—including “exceptionalist and providentialist themes framed in organicist, teleological narratives structures” (p. 265). Honoring both aspirations and subjectivities, Smith holds, is necessary, desirable, . . . and problematic. At the same time, his ideals call for “rising attention to claims of special obligations to noncitizens, and . . . [for] enhanced immigration flows” (p. 263)."
"5","In this fair‐minded study, Smith's relentlessly taxonomical, categorical, and (professionally) social scientific mindset clashes with recent antitaxonomical, anticategorical, and fluid understandings of identity—with which Smith is in full sympathy: he proposes a template against templates. Its personalized opening and concluding vignettes notwithstanding, Smith's grand‐bargain gambit offering just the right dose of “greater inclusiveness” (p. 266), cosmopolitanism, and egalitarianism, yet appropriately respectful of particularism and exclusivity, lends the book an Olympian tenor: Smith is large and contains multitudes but proposes six that can be hypothesized and tested. The sliding scale deflects attention from the ways his model entails (highly controversial) duties to domestic minorities (American Indians, African Americans) and conquered or annexed nationalities and implicates questions of “cultural appropriation” and integrity. Smith generously cites a would‐be posse of small‐bore social science studies involving membership but stints on references to American political development constructivists modeling many of the same dynamics; he entirely ignores cultural anthropologists (Sahlins, Geertz), who have long studied systems of social meaning made through distinctively fashioned stories and logics (p. 91). That said, Smith's positioning midway between ordinary politics (coalition formation and maintenance) and systems of meaning and culture provides a solid base for contemporary political scientists seeking to systematically consider these issues."
"6","            "
"7","KEN I. KERSCH"
"8","Boston College"
