"","x"
"1","“The general conclusion of this book can be summed up by saying that what we have now is not a functioning continental environmental management system, but many institutional building blocks and a reservoir of good will” (p. 184). This quotation offers a concise summary of this book, in which authors from three countries provide an introduction to the environmental policy architecture in Canada, Mexico, and the United States. The authors provide an economic, institutional, and ecological sketch of each nation before providing more detail on the relevant components of their environmental policy agencies, laws, and regulations. Perhaps the central shared characteristic of the three countries is the lack of sufficient environmental capacity. For Canada and the United States, this is due to budget cuts and increasing partisanship over environmental issues, while in Mexico, it is due primarily to its comparative lack of fiscal resources."
"2","Successful transboundary environmental governance, the authors argue, is based on strong communication and networks, mutual understanding and learning, and shared resources. There are several significant bilateral environmental agreements and institutions, most commonly focused on water and wildlife, as well as the trilateral Commission on Environmental Cooperation (CEC), created as part of a side agreement to the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994. The CEC has been successful in terms of building networks and enhancing understanding, but it has had an annual budget of approximately $9 million since its founding. This limited budget underscores the significance of domestic agencies in dealing with transboundary issues. The authors next turn to four case studies: biodiversity protection, smog reduction, greenhouse gas reduction, and genetically modified crop (GMO) regulation. Each case study describes how the nations deal with the issues domestically, discusses transboundary efforts on the issue, and examines the strength of networks, understanding, and resource sharing across the nations. I would have liked some discussion of this suite of cases. For instance, are there fundamental differences between such spatially specific issues as biodiversity and smog and broader topics such as global greenhouse gas concentrations and trade in GMO commodities? For instance, would a robust North American climate change system matter much if the rest of the world did not have one?"
"3","The book is a good starting place for those interested in transboundary environmental policy in North America, but I think a greater focus on two topics could have made the book even stronger. First, although the authors frequently note shortcomings in how the countries are dealing with particular problems, such as a lack of financial resources devoted to environmental policy or the relatively low place of climate change on the policy agenda in Canada and the United States, they do not offer much in the way of political analysis as to why that is the case or how it might change. In other words, climate change is a highly contentious issue in the U.S. Congress—what do the authors think needs to happen to change those political dynamics in order for the United States to adopt climate policies that might integrate with those of Canada and Mexico? Second, greater attention to the specifics of transboundary institutions and policy dynamics would have also strengthened the volume. Although the summaries of how the nations deal with biodiversity or GMOs domestically were useful, more depth, for instance, on how Mexico and the United States share knowledge and resources and seek to plan for conserving biodiversity on their common border would have increased our understanding of the promises and pitfalls of transboundary governance. The authors touch on topics such as this, but I was left wanting more."
"4","                        "
"5","CHRISTOPHER McGRORY KLYZA"
"6","Middlebury College"
