"","x"
"1","Alasdair Roberts has written a thoughtful and timely book about how Americans in the past responded to global economic and political forces beyond their control. Roberts masterfully reinterprets the period for historians, but his goal is not primarily historical. Political scientists, policymakers, and citizens have much to learn from the economic crisis following 1837."
"2","Roberts begins with an important claim. As the era of American political and economic hegemony comes to a close, America's “future will be something like its past” and thus “it is possible to anticipate something about the nature of American politics” from history. His core arguments are that the depression of 1836–1848 was caused by “economic developments abroad”—beyond America's control—and that it was not just an economic event but “produced unprecedented political and social instability” (pp. 6–8)."
"3","America depended on British capital to fund public works and private investment and to purchase America's leading export, Southern cotton. The crisis was produced by a bubble, as British investors poured in money, producing a land boom in the West. As Britain pulled back, American economic activity was curtailed, and American banks, which had been too generous, failed. Hard times were everywhere."
"4","America's political response to the crisis looks eerily familiar today. First, state governments—which had borrowed abroad to build canals, roads, and railroads—could not repay loans. Faced with the need to impose high taxes on unwilling citizens, nine states defaulted, angering foreign investors. Despite state and federal lawmakers' efforts to reassure foreign capital, citizens simply would not and could not pay."
"5","Voters blamed politicians for the crisis, leading to changes in state constitutions to “shackle” government spending (p. 73), especially government borrowing. Politically, too, citizens lost faith in government's ability to solve problems, aiding the Democratic Party's rise to power."
"6","The federal government had its own problems. The crisis led to gridlock as partisan leaders bickered over how to save a nation when the major sources of the crisis were beyond federal control—state policies and the need for foreign investment. Partisan gridlock reflected a broader decline in political trust. Federal politics were unstable. Partisans struggled to pass policies, only to see them overturned the following year. The loss of trust made it more difficult to compromise—especially over tariffs, which divided north from south, and helped lead the nation to civil war."
"7","Finally, the crisis forced governments to deal with issues of law and order. Rebellions broke out, from the full‐scale political revolution of Dorr's Rebellion in Rhode Island to urban violence and protest, often by out‐of‐work whites taking out their anger on African Americans or Irish Americans. In response, leaders had to come to terms with the role of force in a democracy."
"8","The crisis ended because war with Mexico pumped money into the economy and improved morale, and the discovery of rich mines in California gave British investors new faith in the economy."
"9","We learn from this story that when Americans—or citizens of any country—are faced with significant economic forces beyond their control, they struggle for answers, and often act out of frustration. The result is more‐turbulent politics, more‐strident cultural nationalism, and violence, as people seek ways to improve their economic situation at a time when the pie is shrinking. Democratically elected leaders, forced to accommodate the real forces that shape their nation‐state's future—capital and the economic and military interests of more‐powerful states—do so only to face the ire of their own citizens, who see themselves (perhaps rightly) as the losers in these compromises."
"10","                        "
"11","JOHANN N. NEEM"
"12","Western Washington University"
