"","x"
"1","The media has the power to influence the way the public views events. This statement is widely accepted, yet examples of the fact still leave one with a feeling of surprise that our opinions can be manipulated in both acknowledged and less acknowledged ways. Douglas M. McLeod and Dhavan V. Shah explore this by advancing the concept of communication framing effects. “[F]raming can be found throughout the social sciences as a way of describing how messages, based on certain patterns of emphasis and exclusion, can structure the thinking of the people who encounter them” (p. 11). The researchers look specifically at the distinction between individual and collective frames and cueing. Cueing is similar to framing in that it brings form to a portion of the message. While a frame relates to a story or event as a whole, a cue brings meaning to a specific concept. McLeod and Shah aim, in part, to bring into focus “framing effects” research and cueing through experiments that altered certain features of news stories related to the “war on terror” in order to determine audience response."
"2","Their work leads to the development of two new models: the Message Framing Model (MFM) and the Message Processing Model (MPM). These models present “frame building (how frames become manifest in texts) and frame setting (how frames come to influence thought)” (p. 11). A goal of this project is to further understand the impact that different types of messages have on the public and, ultimately, to create a broader awareness of the way different types of framing may influence the extremes of public opinion experienced during times of heightened national security. The focus of the research is events that have occurred in the United States since the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 and the subsequent creation of the Department of Homeland Security and passage of the USA PATRIOT Act."
"3","McLeod and Shah recognize the implications of their work as part of the national security and civil liberties debate. Their research contributes to our understanding of the power of the media to influence “three core citizen competencies: the sophistication and integration of political cognitions, the nature of political tolerance judgments, and the degree of political engagement” (p. 5). By exposing framing models and cues, it is possible to democratize how information is presented and shared."
"4","One way that media messages have a more powerful effect on the public is by transitioning from a group to an individual protagonist. In the years following September 11, one of the tropes used by politicians to heighten the sense of danger and threat felt by the public was to present the terrorists and the war on terror as a faceless enemy. Because it was impossible to identify the enemy, the threat was everywhere. A more effective means to rally support behind controversial policies is to identify an individual who could represent the danger. Osama bin Laden served this purpose, but so did many Muslim men in the service of assigning a face to the terrorist threat. These techniques are also effective tools to frame activist groups and individuals that can be targeted, although indirectly, under the directives of the PATRIOT Act. The research presented in this book does an excellent job of portraying the power of individual framing. It also contributes to an understanding of how the justification for massive data collection enabled through the PATRIOT Act is made."
"5","The models presented in this book provide a means to quantitatively show the effects of media framing on audiences. McLeod and Shah note that at this point in time, framing research is not unified behind one model, and they suggest that MFM and MPM can serve as means to bring the different research strands together. This work is relevant for a range of audiences from political scientists to journalists and would be a valuable example of impactful research for graduate as well as undergraduate students."
"6","                        "
"7","KRISTENE UNSWORTH"
"8","Drexel University"
