"","x"
"1","AS THE DUST STILL SWIRLS, ENDLESSLY IT SEEMS, around the 2012 election, it is worth reexamining its predecessor of a century ago: the epochal election of 1912. Granted, 1912 was a four‐way race, pitting Democratic and Republican nominees against challengers from the Socialist and Progressive Parties—a far cry from today's bipolar contests. Yet then as now, the political climate was highly charged, and the main question dividing the nation essentially the same: How should government protect freedom and promote opportunity while reducing inequality and ameliorating its effects? These general similarities suggest two particular reasons to study the course and consequences of the 1912 election. First, today's American system can be traced in important ways to its outcome, which put Woodrow Wilson in the White House after a sophisticated rhetorical battle that clarified his vision for American democracy and shaped the policies he devised to achieve it. Those policies laid the grounds for the American welfare state that emerged under Franklin D. Roosevelt, and thus mark, if not a constitutional revolution on the scale of the New Deal, a watershed: a diversion of ideological currents and institutional inertia that made subsequent changes possible. Second, both the campaign and Wilson's presidency were influenced, to an unrecognized degree, by a tradition of American philosophy that might offer intellectual resources for today's political tasks: philosophical pragmatism, a tradition popularized by William James and given explicit political content by his Progressive Era students and admirers."
"2","Recovering the character and influence of this pragmatist strand of progressive politics yields historical and civic fruit. The progressive movement that shaped the campaigns of Wilson and Theodore Roosevelt, the two major contenders in 1912, is contested, to say the least; some deny its meaningful existence.1 Nevertheless, two broad interpretive trends stand out. Liberal historians have tended to see the progressive movement as a failure, or even a triumph of reactionism.2 More recently, conservative commentators have seen it as a revolution in the power of the state that perverted the Constitution by curtailing the liberty of individual citizens.3 Neither interpretation is accurate. Both discourage inquiry into the origins of the system within and about which we debate today, while obscuring untried, side‐tracked, or rolled‐back experiments in governance that might spur more‐imaginative solutions to present problems.         "
"3","An enhanced understanding of the American system's progressive inheritance requires attention to its intellectual, sociocultural, and political histories—a method useful for understanding American state development generally. Such a mixed historical approach accommodates both social forces explanations of state formation and historical institutionalist accounts. The 1912 election and its consequences demonstrate that ideas, culture, and institutions shape politics in ways and proportions that vary over time, yet consistently evince a mutually constitutive relationship among all three.4 In this light, the pragmatist‐progressive tradition is more than a historical artifact; it is a promising mode of contemporary political analysis. In their political analyses, pragmatists sought to understand the relative and shifting importance of multiple factors germane to specific questions or goals. They insisted that political theory attune itself to a wide range of variables, reducing the epistemic danger of predetermining a narrow class of reachable conclusions. If we, like the pragmatists, extend the meaning of theory to include those ideas and beliefs that guide our daily practice, there may be present‐day political benefits to the discovery and study of this pragmatist‐progressive sensibility. A clearer understanding of pragmatists' role in major debates, achievements, and failures connected to 1912 and its aftermath reveals alternative habits of political discourse and social inquiry of the sort that political philosophers, social critics, and gridlock‐weary citizens seem eager to find; more critically deliberative habits that may better serve our interdependent, rapidly changing society than the adversarial and ideological ethos now prevailing.5"
"4","Pragmatism is a tradition of many strands. The one examined here can be traced most directly to the American psychologist and philosopher, William James (1842–1910). In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, James used “pragmatism” to describe a radical theory of knowledge and truth with direct consequences for ethics and politics. Knowledge, James argued, is both a record of our attempts to surmount problems impeding the achievement of goals as well as an interpretation of the outcomes. Truth measures how well a particular part of that knowledge, an idea, both solves the problems we encounter while also accommodating the rest of experience—the stock of ideas that, in past experience (both personal and societal), have proved useful in navigating our physical and social worlds.6"
"5","James's view of those worlds, which he described as “radically empiricist” to emphasize both the metaphysical authority and inherent uncertainty of human experience, essentially demanded these theories of knowledge and truth. In James's view, the universe itself is incomplete, at least as humans know it; for we encounter new and challenging experiences daily, to which we must respond with a mix of creativity and humility regarding our assumptions about the world. Consequently, we believe in ideas that work for us by successfully predicting the consequences of our actions in this fluid universe. More controversially, James argued that we also frequently believe in ideas that have not yet proved their value, and justifiably so, if belief alone can spur actions that will confirm or disconfirm them. This was the gist of James's famous “will to believe.”7"
"6","The will‐to‐believe doctrine reflected James's respect for the real‐world effects of the ideas that drive human action. The mind, he contended, actively shapes both internal and external experience, respecting no sharp boundary between them. Yet the doctrine does not provide license to believe whatever would please us, facts be damned. James insisted that we have no warrant to believe in ideas that our own or others' experience contradicts, unless positive evidence is adduced to resolve the contradictions.8 Put succinctly, James held that all ideas are potentially powerful and potentially wrong. The answer waits on our testing them against the widest range of experience that the case allows. Thus, James asserted that the reflection and inquiry of an “intellectual republic” (as he put it) can best preserve our “mental freedom” while advancing collective wisdom. The implications of this outlook for moral knowledge and conduct are profound. Moral knowledge, like all knowledge, is a product of unceasing experience and activity; hence moral truths, or values, are continually changing. Again, however, this fluidity is not an excuse to hold whatever values we want. Only an “ethical republic,” deliberating over the full range of its members' values, can discover relationships among them and thus formulate social values accommodating the moral lives of as many people as possible. In this way, moral freedom is maximized across the ethical republic—although even deliberatively determined values cannot be final, James warned, until “the last man has had his experience and said his say.”9"
"7","James's ethics, then, was unsystematic by design. Nevertheless, it did what ethics needs to do: provide a practical guide to conduct, including analytical tools for identifying and choosing the good. Despite rejecting a stable scale of values (or synonymously, “ideals”), James emphasized several virtues that he thought were historically vital to a healthy ethical republic. One was the virtue of experimentalism: the willingness to reflect critically on our values and discard those that no longer serve the goals they embody. The good ultimately achieved by humanity's collective “say” depends on experiment, for as James put it, both our “hypotheses” and the “acts” they prompt are among the conditions that, eventually, will “determine what that ‘say’ shall be.”10"
"8","James also saw virtue in historical wisdom. With only immediate interests to guide it, the ethical experiment could run amok. James believed that awareness of the practical needs and contingent factors that had driven and constrained moral action in the past could discipline ethical innovation in the present. Societies evolved through serial moral experiments “of the most searching kind,” and ethical reflection should therefore begin with “the customs of the community on top.” Certainly, at any time, the “revolutionary thought or action” of an ethical innovator “may bear prosperous fruit,” but it would wither in a social and historical vacuum; such fruits are harvested “only through the aid of the experience of other men.”11"
"9","Balancing both the potential chaos of experimentalism and the danger of naturalizing historical values was the virtue of empathy, a sort of emotional radical empiricism involving attention to the experience of others. Radical empiricists, James argued, are committed to account for alien needs, values, and views, inasmuch as these infringe upon and thus help constitute their own world of experience. Further, the imperative character of our own values implies that other people experience their values as imperative, too. This recognition confirms alien values as facts of experience against which our own must be tested. Typically, our consideration of alien values is preempted by what James called “a certain blindness in human beings”: a navel‐gazing habit of ignoring the meanings others attach to their lives. This vice has the paradoxical effect of shrinking moral horizons even while encouraging moral license. To combat it requires seeking out alien ideals, to help realize the potentially greater goods that creative inquiry might reveal or create.12"
"10","Finally, James preached cultivation of the “strenuous mood.” This involved, first, commitment to ongoing reflection, deliberation, and reconciliation of conflicting values; and second, acceptance that all moral decisions entail sacrificing some ideals to realize others. The ideals to be spared are the more tolerant: those that satisfy the most universally compelling demands, preserve a deliberative space in which common interests can be formulated, and expand that space to include a widening range of individual experience. Embedded in the very concept of morality, James noted, is the overarching ideal that there is some system by which to harmonize the rest. That meta‐ideal should inspire us to risk a collective, running experiment to determine which ideals are most “organizable” and which to discard; we must throw “even the dearest” of our ideals into the fray. The “guiding principle” of our moral lives must be “to satisfy at all times as many demands as we can,” or as he stated in more‐precise and less‐utilitarian fashion, to pray “victory” for “the most inclusive side” in a value clash—the side promising “the maximum of satisfaction to the thinkers taken altogether.”13"
"11","James's ideas exerted a powerful influence on key figures in the movement that early‐twentieth‐century Americans described as “progressivism.” Progressivism meant many things to many people, as it has to scholars studying its roots, character, and effects. Generally, however, Americans calling themselves “progressives” sought to restore the rule of “the people”—variously and sometimes even narrowly defined, depending on who was adopting the progressive mantle—over a polity dominated by “the interests”—private entities wielding disproportionate economic, social, and political power. More specifically, most self‐styled progressives viewed the rise of great corporations with the ability to influence prices, politicians, and parties as threatening the economic, physical, and moral well‐being of millions of Americans: middle‐class consumers, industrial workers, small‐business owners, urban immigrants, rural communities, and other groups aggrieved by unfamiliar or ostensibly illegitimate forces. While promoting diverse and frequently contradictory solutions to this perceived crisis of democratic government, most advocates of progressivism agreed on the need to expand government's functions in ways that would not diminish the state's accountability to citizens but would increase and equalize it. Progressives hoped that wider and more powerful mechanisms of self‐government would not just counterbalance private concentrations of wealth and power but would encourage institutional flexibility, and thus better serve the changing needs of a variegated people in a period of upheaval.14"
"12","Still, as Daniel Rodgers noted decades ago, this basic, people‐versus‐interests “language” of progressivism was adopted by such a variety of constituencies that its use alone tells us little.15 Each particular progressive agenda gained coherence and specificity from the other intellectual commitments paired with it. When investigating the legacy of progressivism in American politics, therefore, the brand must be identified; and few brands of progressivism had a greater impact on American political development than the pragmatist brand.         "
"13","From the 1890s forward, several figures with close ties to William James gained prominence in reform circles, and by 1912, they were the vanguard of a recognizably pragmatist progressive front. Despite much diversity of opinion, these figures shared a basic mode of political analysis and an ideal of political action inspired by Jamesian epistemology and ethics. Pragmatist Progressives assumed that policies and institutions, like the ideas behind them, were historical, experimental, and improvable. They considered deliberative democracy the best process for evaluating political achievements and learning from failures, because it brought the greatest range of social experience to bear on public questions. Consequently, they insisted on the constant expansion of the deliberative sphere. At the same time, they insisted that individuals and groups granted full participation in the deliberative process be obliged to accept any outcome that preserved its capacity to promote peaceful change. As a result, pragmatist Progressives differed from those viewing compromise as merely a necessity, or necessary evil, in politics. In their view, compromise, if pursued through empathetic exchange and critical self‐reflection, was a means to advance rather than diminish divergent ideals, both by enhancing their holders' grasp of their practical implications and by revealing more inclusive and widely acceptable ways to serve the essential values they embodied. They had no illusions that all compromise was deliberative, or that deliberative compromise resolved all conflicts. Still, they vigorously denied the antithesis of compromise and idealism assumed by zealots of their day and others. For these thinkers, inclusive deliberation was simultaneously the most democratic, principled, and even scientific means for citizens to engage in the discovery, creation, and realization of shared ideals.         "
"14","John Dewey, Louis Brandeis, Jane Addams, W.E.B. Du Bois, Herbert Croly, and Walter Lippmann were among those applying this pragmatist politics to problems of their day, shaping national debates over labor rights, women's suffrage, racial justice, immigration, education, public administration, and industrial regulation.16 By 1912, the two strongest presidential contenders, Roosevelt and Wilson, were each indebted to pragmatist Progressive thinkers for the substance of their campaign messages. For TR, Herbert Croly and Jane Addams were central; for Wilson, Louis Brandeis. It pays, then, to examine these three figures more thoroughly before explaining their importance to the 1912 election and its aftermath.         "
"15","Perhaps best known is the role of Croly, who absorbed James's philosophical ideas during two aborted stints at Harvard. James's emphasis on the inevitability of change, the importance of adaptation, and interdependence of individuals heightened Croly's awareness of America's industrial crisis and shaped his response to what he considered its cultural and constitutional origins. Croly felt that America was undergoing a socioeconomic revolution that neither the government nor most citizens were as yet equipped to handle. Instead, the polity seemed increasingly to be divided among traditionalists defending an outmoded laissez‐faire political economy, radicals preaching an uncritical, impractical socialism, and those between but lacking coherent alternatives.17 Adopting the mantle of public intellectual, Croly determined to seek and promote a middle way between unrestrained capitalism and radical socialism. These efforts produced the book that made him a sensation, The Promise of American Life (1909). Croly's reflections on the power of capital, weakness of labor, and barriers to popular influence over policy led him to endorse the secret ballot, stricter anti‐corruption laws, unionization of labor, national regulation of industry, and graduated income taxation.18 None of these ideas were original to Croly. His achievement was giving these practical experiments coherent theoretical grounding—an achievement revealing his thorough internalization of James's teachings. Croly historicized the American democratic ideal, describing fundamental changes in the relation between its original “promise” of autonomy, equality, and opportunity, and the modern socioeconomic context impeding its realization. The growth of corporations controlling massive amounts of capital had created a class of individuals with power to manipulate a supposedly laissez‐faire economy, rendering America's promise illusory for their fellows. A central government both stronger and more popularly accountable than Americans had yet constructed was the only plausible counterweight. Building it required a cultural shift to match the socioeconomic changes in process; a shift marked by a will to believe in the individual and social opportunities that solidarity afforded, and in the possibility of institutions promoting them. In sum, fulfilling America's promise required a new public spirit: one abjuring the frontier ideal of a purely independent self in favor of loyalty to a government that expanded freedom for all, by registering and enacting the will of a diverse but mutually accommodating people.         "
"16","Overnight, Croly became the theorist of the progressive movement, eventually providing Roosevelt with his 1912 slogan, “The New Nationalism.”19 In terms of public visibility, national influence, and sheer activity, however, Croly sat with nearly every reformer of the era in the shadow of Jane Addams. Frustrated in youth by exclusion from gendered realms of public life, Addams set to eroding barriers that marginalized others, fostering among the disfranchised both the desire and capability to participate in politics. As she noted on multiple occasions, James and fellow pragmatist John Dewey were important models. During the lectures that produced her finest work of social criticism, Democracy and Social Ethics (1902), Addams distributed syllabi citing James's and Dewey's ethical and educational treatises, and when the book was finished, she identified James's works as a standard she wished she had matched. Years later, she credited Dewey's ideas with guiding her activities at Hull House, the Chicago social settlement she founded in 1889.20"
"17","Addams was anything but a cipher for James and Dewey, both of whom admired her philosophical and practical contributions to social politics.21 Still, Addams was a pragmatist through and through. Her whole career exhibited her belief that solidarity across classes and interests would promote enhanced freedom for all of them—a belief congruent with James's teaching that empathy and tolerance enrich the individual moral life. Addams lent her boundless energies to progressive campaigns for the eight‐hour day, pensions and unemployment insurance, child labor laws, housing regulation, union rights, women's suffrage, African American rights, and programs combating prostitution and alcoholism. Her methods, too, mark her as a pragmatist. She was an empiricist, collecting hard data on conditions in factories, slums, saloons, brothels, and what passed for recreational spaces in Chicago's grimmest quarters. She embraced James's ethical republicanism at Hull House, insisting the settlement be a site of tolerant, deliberative, creative social exchange and activity. There, she asserted in 1892, all “propagandas” must find “the warm welcome of an inn, if perchance one of them be found an angel,” and residents must ever “be ready for experiment.”22"
"18","In the years before World War I, the only reformer rivaling Addams in stature was the lawyer‐activist Louis D. Brandeis. Before his 23‐year stint on the U.S. Supreme Court (1916–1939) Brandeis gained fame as the “People's Attorney,” championing local communities, small businesses, trade unions, and consumer groups against big‐business power. Historians often emphasize the traditional character of Brandeis's reformism, citing his idealization of small‐producer economies and decentralized government.23 But Brandeis saw competitive markets and locally tailored policies as means of building a society more unified and more diverse than anything Thomas Jefferson envisioned. Brandeis spent his career attempting to lay legal foundations for a democratic culture both experimental and organic: a “truly American” culture committed to “development of the individual through liberty” and “attainment of the common good through democracy and social justice.”24 Contemporary industrial conditions, in his view, threatened such a culture. Workers, denied a voice in the organization, conditions, and ultimate purpose of their labor, were discouraged from developing the experimental and deliberative virtues that Brandeis (like James) thought crucial to a culture of freedom. What held for workers held for all citizens, whose personal capacities and civic characters were enhanced by participation in government and atrophied through lack of it.25 Brandeis thought large, centralized forms of social organization often discouraged such participation, but that was not the essence of his philosophy. He believed that communities of all scales thrive when their ability to adapt to change and formulate new goals is maximized. Thus, he favored small firms over large, considering them less likely to resist worker participation, rigidify structures and strategies, or stifle the competition that spurred innovation. Similarly, he viewed local and state governments as valuable policy laboratories, generating initiatives reflecting unique conditions of distinct communities while expanding the data and ideas available to policymakers at any level. Still, for all his worry about “the curse of bigness,” Brandeis never denied the federal government's responsibility to promote conditions favoring a free and egalitarian culture.26 Markets, money supply, product safety, labor conditions; all needed regulation, and if local solutions were ideal, their effectiveness was the concern and ultimate responsibility of the national government. As a people's government, it had a duty “to fit its rulers for their task,” maintaining an “American standard of living” permitting citizens to learn, appreciate, and perform their duties. Otherwise, he warned, “our great experiment in democracy must fail.”27"
"19","Brandeis's sensibility thus closely resembled that of James, who also refused to reduce democracy to a chase after laissez‐faire illusions of sovereign individualism. This affinity was more than coincidental. As a law student, Brandeis recorded passages from James's writings, which he frequently shared with others; later, he became closely acquainted with James, encountering his social and ethical ideas through numerous formal and informal interactions dating from 1897.28 These encounters could only have reinforced the naturally pragmatist cast of Brandeis's mind. He was an empiricist in the Jamesian fashion, believing that the only useful ideas were those suggested by and tested against experience. “Knowledge of the decided cases and of the rules of logic cannot alone make a great lawyer,” he told a young associate in 1893. Rather, “to underestimate the logic of facts” was a professional and even social hazard. “Experience of life has made me democratic,” Brandeis explained in 1913, for it taught “that many things sanctioned by expert opinion and denounced by popular opinion are wrong.”29 This pragmatist belief in the complementary links between empiricism and democracy inspired his pioneering method of “sociological jurisprudence”: the collection, analysis, and courtroom deployment of data demonstrating the social effects of laws, coupled with insistence that such concrete consequences are as pertinent as doctrine or precedent to law's interpretation. He debuted this approach in Muller v. Oregon (1908), arguing successfully before the Supreme Court for the constitutionality of an Oregon minimum‐hours law for working women. Brandeis submitted 95 pages of research showing that strenuous workdays endangered women's health, compromised their child‐bearing and child‐rearing roles, and generally threatened the nation's welfare.30"
"20","The crux of the inaugural “Brandeis brief” was not that woman's paramount duty was motherhood. It was rather that representative governments have a duty to adjust laws to social needs, and courts a duty to uphold a constitution maximizing latitude for adapting law to life. In sum, Brandeis affirmed the crucial role of broad epistemic communities in adjusting institutions to experience. This pragmatist commitment marked his entire career. As he wrote years later in a justly celebrated opinion, the American system was built for “political change,” sustained by “confidence in the power of free and fearless reasoning applied through the processes of popular government.”31"
"21","By 1912, many Americans had grown cynical about the “popular” character of their government and skeptical of its ability to manage change. Since 1896, the cost of living had far outpaced wages. A severe financial panic in 1907 had put hundreds of thousands out of work, and the labor market had not recovered.32 Meanwhile, large combinations continued amassing profits and capital, increasing their influence over the economy and government. Strikes were common and frequently ended in violence; in the spring of 1912, West Virginia coalminers fought pitched gun battles with state‐summoned troopers. Immigration exacerbated urban problems that an influx of rural laborers seeking work in city factories had already made acute. Many of America's problems were economic, but they provoked a constitutional crisis. Increasingly, Americans demanded more popular control over government, through means including direct election of Senators and independent administrative agencies to check the power of market behemoths. The 1912 election thus became a debate over the very nature of democracy in modern America and the institutional forms it should take, and “progressivism” seemed to many a promising, if ill‐defined, solution.33"
"22","Two candidates claimed the progressive mantle in 1912: Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson. Neither had impeccable progressive credentials. Neither would have called himself a pragmatist. Yet pragmatist progressives shaped the thinking and campaign of each profoundly."
"23","Croly was the major intellectual influence on Roosevelt's progressive awakening. Although TR promoted conservation, trust‐busting, and other progressive causes during his presidency (1902–1909), his pivot toward a coherent agenda embracing the majority of such reformist aims tracked his introduction to Croly's ideas. The Promise of American Life was recommended to Roosevelt by Manhattan's reform‐minded District Judge, Learned Hand, while TR was touring Europe in 1910.34 TR had already noted efforts by European governments to practice within their borders the gospel of uplift and civilization that he, as president, had preached in foreign affairs. He never questioned his core belief in citizens' duty to put nation before self, but European innovations in social legislation prompted a shift in focus. In speeches across Western Europe, TR began to emphasize the degree to which citizens' commitment to national goals depended on a sense of inclusion in their rewards, while ability to help advance such goals depended on a basic level of material well‐being.35 The harmonization of spiritual and scientific notes in Promise—Croly mused that it might take “a democratic St. Francis” to inspire the experimentalist social politics he outlined—was bound to appeal to TR. Prone to deploying religious and even eschatological rhetoric, Roosevelt was also among the nation's most accomplished amateur naturalists and a firm believer that changing conditions demanded adaptation. The man who would liken the 1912 election to the battlefield of Armageddon was also the man whose zoological knowledge and taxonomic opinions were sought by academic researchers throughout his presidency.36"
"24","After reading Promise, Roosevelt wrote to thank Croly personally for authoring it. “I do not know when I have read a book which I felt profited me as much,” he enthused. “All I wish is that I were better able to get my advice to my fellow countrymen in practical shape according to the principles you set forth.” Croly's work did, in fact, sharpen TR's thinking. “I shall use your ideas freely in speeches I intend to make,” he promised, and he did so four weeks later in his famous address at Osawatomie, Kansas. There, TR unveiled a Crolyesque progressive agenda that he dubbed, tellingly, “The New Nationalism.” The press lauded Croly as “the man from whom Col. Roosevelt got his ‘New Nationalism,”’ and for the next year, TR's writings drew explicitly on Croly's book, “the most profound and illuminating study of our National conditions which has appeared for many years.”37"
"25","Promise grounded TR's instinctive distaste for materialism and attraction to self‐sacrifice in coherent pragmatist‐progressive principles, and his writings from 1910 to 1912 exhibit greater cogency than at any other period in his career.38 During those years TR tied his political fortunes ever closer to advanced Progressive positions on labor legislation, environmental conservation, and electoral reform.39 The New‐Nationalist vocabulary he adopted from Promise allowed him, like Croly, to frame these causes as crucial to a new politics, recognizing the interdependent fortunes of individual citizens and accounting for the rights and interests of all. “The New Nationalism puts the national need before sectional or personal advantage,” he proclaimed in Osawatomie. Yet before that same audience he asked of his “countrymen” that “whenever they go in for reform, they remember the two sides, and always exact justice from one side as much from the other.”40"
"26","TR's new alliances widened a growing rift with his hand‐picked successor, President William Howard Taft. Though Taft initiated more anti‐trust suits in three years than TR had in seven, he always insisted that property rights were the bulwark of liberty and motor of civilizational development. By 1910, in the view of TR and many progressives, Taft's increasingly strident defense of limited government, waning enthusiasm for trust‐busting and conservation, and support for protectionist trade measures evinced the Republican leadership's thralldom to wealthy interests and disdain for the wider citizenry. The party's nominating convention in June 1912 was the last straw. Although Roosevelt had won the most primaries, these were still novelties, and primary delegates a minority. Taft enjoyed support from party bosses and powerbrokers who leaned on enough delegates to obviate TR's apparent advantage. On 22 June, Roosevelt bolted, charging Taft and the Party's conservative wing with fraud. Reconvening in Chicago, he and supporters launched the Progressive Party—a vehicle for TR's ambitions, certainly, but also the ambitions of countless reformers to ensure that maintaining the public welfare became, in theory and practice, government's major function. On 7 August 1912, the convention nominated Roosevelt for President, granting California's Hiram Johnson the vice‐presidential nod.41"
"27","The public philosophy adopted by the new Party's leader revealed his lasting debt to Croly. During the campaign, Roosevelt promised to regulate the conduct, rather than size, of business. This distanced him from Taft, whose trust‐busting record exceeded his own, and Wilson, who took a more aggressive antimonopoly stance. There was, however, a deeper logic to his position. The urge to bust all trusts, he felt, was not only impractical, but manifested the selfishness of competitors concerned solely with personal gain. A truly national government would regulate trusts through careful study of their economic and social merits, channeling their power toward securing citizens' material well‐being, maintaining the nation's honor, and increasing its benevolent power in the world. Several features of this philosophy resonate with pragmatism. Like Croly, Roosevelt viewed trusts as historical phenomena, not simply moral aberrations; they were facts of experience to be dealt with in all their complexity. Again like Croly, he thought attempts to resurrect a Jeffersonian republic were anachronistic and absurd. America required a strong national government, equipped to spearhead constitutional adaptations that could channel economic forces to public ends, and a unified citizenry committed to the nation as a social ideal. The goal was a robust administrative state, accountable to citizens endowed with expanded powers of direct democratic action. “The people themselves must be the ultimate makers of their own constitution,” TR declared at the Progressives' convention, “and where their agents differ in the interpretation of the constitution, the people themselves should be given the chance, after full and deliberate judgment, authoritatively to settle what interpretation it is that their representatives shall thereafter adopt as binding.”42"
"28","These Crolyesque strains were not just faint reverberations of Promise, although as Hand quipped, TR could “recite parts of it by heart.” Rather, they signify Croly's ongoing contribution to TR's thinking. The two corresponded regularly from autumn 1911 through the election of 1912, and met frequently, at TR's request, to talk politics.43 Croly was then formulating analyses that emerged in Progressive Democracy (1914), and shared his musings on “the history, philosophy, and future of the American progressive movement” with Roosevelt. In the published version, Croly reiterated the Constitution's historical rather than timeless nature, insisted that its strength hinged on “adaptability to new exigencies,” and argued that practically realizing its value required simplified amendment mechanisms to streamline government's responsiveness to citizens. Significantly, this commitment to a national government that could execute “the rule of the people” in the face of local or special interests was written into the Progressive platform by TR himself: Revising the final plank on constitutional amendments, TR asserted that “a free people should have the power from time to time to amend their fundamental law so as to adapt it progressively to [their] changing needs.”44"
"29","Nor was that all. At the campaign's start, Croly helped Hand and wealthy reformer George Rublee revise an early version of the Progressive platform. Initially Rublee and Hand did the drafting; Croly, claiming he was “not enough of a lawyer to be interested,” was their sounding board. By the time they submitted their draft to TR, however, Croly's involvement had increased, and Rublee insisted that all three sign the draft to ensure the Colonel's attention. That draft was the first explicitly to endorse more streamlined constitutional amendment mechanisms, and the first to suggest that existing antitrust and tariff statutes should be augmented rather than superseded by independent trade and tariff commissions. Both suggestions made the final platform.45 Later, near the campaign's height, Croly coached TR on explaining the platform's business plank, which Brandeis witheringly attacked as a capitulation to monopolists. Most important, the double imperative pervading Croly's writings—to modernize the state through administrative consolidation and to democratize it through tighter citizen control—became the leitmotif of Roosevelt's campaign oratory. Taft and Wilson both, he scoffed, peddled archaisms, as if the Bill of Rights alone could meet “modern” American needs. TR promised instead that the purview of government would expand under a Progressive presidency, while the power of government, the people's “one great weapon,” would remain in their hands, to be employed for “the uplift of our people as a whole.”46"
"30","Despite these contributions, Croly's most important influence on the Progressive Party remained his catalysis of Roosevelt's thinking in the years before its founding. By contrast, the influence of Croly's fellow pragmatist, Jane Addams, was palpable at every stage of the Party's existence, from its early August birth through Election Day, 1912. As the preeminent scholar of the Bull Moose campaign has noted, the participation of social workers like Addams was “vital” to its program and appeal. A beacon for such men and women, Addams did as much to define the Party's “collective identity” as did its candidate, and was perhaps more essential than he to its articulation of specific reform objectives and its perceived potential to achieve them.47"
"31","As a sign of her importance, Addams was asked to second Roosevelt's nomination. She was also appointed delegate‐at‐large to the convention, and not simply because it was hosted by her home city, Chicago. Addams was a national figure, admired by reformers of all stripes and thousands who did not otherwise identify with progressivism. She was a hero to suffragists, many of whom doubted Roosevelt's commitment to their cause, and appealed strongly to the increasingly strategic bloc of enfranchised women: some 1.2 million voters in six traditionally Republican states. Perhaps most important, Addams recognized the maddening complexity of social problems, along with the frequently painful compromises necessary to build coalitions that could make even limited headway toward solving them.48"
"32","This appreciation for the messiness of social politics reflected Addams's long experience in reform, but it also reflected the pragmatist sensibility she brought to her work—a sensibility entailing more than willingness to compromise. Like Croly, Addams believed that changes in society had outpaced those in government, and the latter had to catch up. This meant expanding the federal government's role to address problems that unregulated markets and local agencies exacerbated or ignored—whatever the scruples of constitutional conservatives. In efforts to protect the vulnerable from misfortune and exploitation, Addams “constantly encountered” the argument “that states alone were concerned in such matters.” That argument, in her view, bespoke the failure of many Americans to view government pragmatically. Generations had been taught “that unless government is localized they do not exercise self‐government at all,” a misconception that “must narrow our notion of government and circumscribe our national life. We forget that politics is largely a matter of adjusted human relations through any unit of government which best serves the purpose.” A pragmatist “notion of government” would not homogenize America's diverse values and priorities, but it could help achieve a better “adjusted” society, encouraging citizens to take interest in the general welfare and elect officials “publicly committed” to addressing national problems. Addams described this political ideal as “a collective effort … both to understand life and to modify it,” dependent for realization on a Jamesian will to believe—to believe not just in the necessity of deal making, but in the creative and often unifying power of communal inquiry, deliberation, and experimentation. A new politics of expanded participation in government and cooperative formulation of interests required public faith in the concept, and “new ideas,” she wrote, “can never gain wide acceptance unless the persons who hold them confess them openly and give them an honest and effective adherence.”49"
"33","In 1912, Addams believed the best means of giving “effective adherence” to the idea of socially responsible, functionally adaptable, democratically accountable government was a national party pledged to achieve it, through specific measures vetted by the people. When the time came to draft a platform embodying that belief, Addams played a major role, alongside many sharing her pragmatist‐progressive outlook. By her account, most involved in drafting the progressive platform agreed that until enough individuals acted as if “increasing human liberation” was both practically feasible and morally imperative, the collective “human mind” would never accept it. Yet Addams also noted the humility tempering her colleagues' reformist zeal. Pondering measures to meet government's “fundamental obligation of adapting the legal order to the changed conditions of national life,” the Platform Committee accepted that one such condition was the necessity of public debate over policy. Appropriately, their final product not only endorsed a series of democratic experiments, but was itself such an experiment, its authors ready “to test its validity” through public scrutiny, “to throw their measures into the life of the nation for corroboration.”50"
"34","Whether the Platform Committee indeed shared her pragmatist convictions so thoroughly, Addams helped ensure that the platform itself contained measures reflecting them. The plank endorsing women's suffrage was crucial. When Roosevelt proposed a version endorsing suffrage only if approved by a national women's referendum, Addams and several longtime collaborators drafted a stronger plank, asserting “that no people can justly claim to be a true democracy which denies political rights on account of sex” and pledging the Party “to the task of securing equal suffrage to men and women alike.” This was the plank ultimately adopted, and along with changing the platform, it altered the attitude of the nominee. Soon after the convention, Roosevelt telegraphed Addams his assurance that “without qualification or equivocation… I am for Woman Suffrage,” a position he maintained throughout the campaign.51"
"35","The suffrage plank was not Addams's only platform contribution. It emerged from a suite of resolutions developed by two social worker associations with which Addams was closely affiliated, and she and colleagues drew on that work to draft most of the Progressive plank on “Social and Industrial Justice.” It called for (among other things) unemployment insurance, minimum workplace safety and health standards, child labor restrictions, the eight‐hour day for women, and a federal department of labor. This plank, too, was critical. It enhanced TR's credibility in the eyes of reform‐minded Americans, and encouraged the convergence of his thinking with that of social workers like Addams. As his late revisions to the plank make clear, their ideas for protecting against “hazards of sickness, irregular employment and old age” provided specific content for his vision of European innovations “adapted to American use.”52"
"36","Although proud of her role in drafting its platform, Addams hardly thought the new Party flawless. As a founding member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), she was appalled by TR's decision not to seat Southern‐state African American delegates, and by the exclusion from the platform of any plank on racial justice. TR recalled that she almost left the party over such “lily‐white progressivism,” and his memory rings true: At a meeting on 5 August of the Resolutions Committee, Addams protested the Party's stand on “the negro question,” and the following day joined civil rights leaders to lobby for a racial justice plank drafted by the NAACP's W.E.B. Du Bois.53 Nevertheless, when the Platform Committee rejected these entreaties, Addams chose to endure harsh criticism from other racial democrats rather than abandon the Party. Its platform, she argued, was no more racist than the major‐party alternatives and far more progressive otherwise. Clearly, progressivism had not yet “crystallized,” as persistent racial injustice attested. But it could not crystallize until it “gained a national foothold” through electoral success. Then, she hoped, the fostering of progressive attitudes generally would “lift this question of the races, as all other questions, out of the grip of the past and into a new era of solution.”54"
"37","TR's lack of racial enlightenment is a reminder that not all evolutionary views of social and cultural development are pragmatist, and that cognitive dissonance was as common among politicians in his day as in ours. As a law student at Columbia, TR had imbibed John Burgess's ideas about the historically conditioned and widely disparate political capacities of different races, and the tension between a racially coded worldview and the Jamesian commitment to greater inclusivity never seemed to trouble him.55 By contrast, Addams's acquiescence in Progressive racial policies more clearly illustrates the perils and advantages of pragmatist politics. Compromise can be premature or misguided. But bracketing certain value conflicts can facilitate cooperation on shared grounds without abandoning positions in contested areas. Thus, while Addams concluded that the Progressive Party was the best thing going, she worked assiduously to move it in a more pragmatist‐progressive direction, occasionally acknowledging its flaws and frequently emphasizing its experimental, and thus revisable, nature.            "
"38","She began with her speech seconding Roosevelt's nomination; devoting but one sentence to the candidate's virtues, Addams emphasized the platform's social‐justice focus and reminded all who would claim the democratic mantle that the rights of ten million African Americans were daily jeopardized and denied. Despite this minor act of rebellion, the speech was distributed nationally by the campaign. Nor did that exhaust Addams's opportunities to shape the Party's message. Roosevelt, knowing her importance to the Party's success, implored her to interpret its purpose to the people, insisting that “no one else could describe it as well.” Addams obliged, undertaking a major speaking tour and writing nationally distributed articles linking the Party's program to the sophisticated political philosophy with which she invested it. Addams knew that many shared her desire to adapt American politics to a society that seemed to be outgrowing inherited laws and conventions, and that many also shared her belief in government's responsibility to create and maintain conditions of justice. Yet Americans disagreed over what adaptations would foster those conditions, and even what those conditions were. Thus, Addams described the Progressive cause as above all “a new method” of political analysis and action: the method of “pragmatism in politics.” The nation needed a politics that “evolved,” an anti‐ideological politics “driven to realities” by citizens “made to test the validity of their phrases.” Traditions and institutions must be contestable; a priori assumptions were mocked by the flux of modern life. Policies, meanwhile, must be made more scientific by becoming more democratic, empirically grounded in the felt needs of the populace. No policies could please everybody. But if formulated on a wide basis of information, collected through extensive public discussion not only of competing aims, but of shared or even potentially shareable values, they might approach “the realization” of popular rule. That, Addams argued, was what the Progressive program aimed to do, while simultaneously fostering new political norms outweighing any single policy goal (or failure) in importance.56"
"39","Neither Addams nor Croly could say that Roosevelt fully embraced their experimentalist ethos. Certainly, TR thought America ripe for fundamental change. But he did not share the pragmatists' vision of the progressive revolution's legacy, which could best be described as an endless series of educated improvisations. Still, Addams, Croly, and others they drew to the Party pushed Roosevelt toward reform positions far beyond those that precipitated his bolt from the Republicans. TR also came to justify those positions by a political philosophy resembling Addams's and Croly's. No longer was politics, ideally viewed, simply a means to national glory. Instead, by autumn 1912, TR viewed politics as a means toward harmonious adjustments between individual rights and communal obligations, such that the individual was not subsumed by the nation, but was empowered by and invested in the healthy social relations from which the nation, and its strength, emerged.57"
"40","Broadly speaking, Roosevelt's main rival shared that political ideal. But Woodrow Wilson dissented from TR's suggestion that achieving it required a constitutional revolution placing capital and commerce in the federal government's hands. “We need no revolution,” Wilson declared in accepting the Democratic presidential nomination; what was needed was “a new method and spirit of counsel.” Despite this disavowal of revolution, as the campaign progressed, Wilson's talk of method and counsel sounded increasingly like the pragmatists' call for a deliberative, experimental, national politics—of the kind Croly had described as a “new Declaration of Independence.”58 In fact, the similarities were substantive, for Wilson, too, owed a debt to pragmatism.            "
"41","Wilson ascended to the leadership of the Democratic Party from the governorship of New Jersey, where despite earlier flirtations with conservatism, he made national news as a reformer. His previous career as a historian and political scientist nurtured his gubernatorial and, later, presidential approach to politics as an attempt to reconcile the perennial ideal of order with the universal experience of change. In 1885, Wilson described the Constitution as a “root, not a perfect vine”; four years later, he urged government to expand its “ministrant” functions to secure citizens the time, energy, and opportunity to adapt institutions to their needs. Shortly before entering politics, he again endorsed strong measures to restore the voice of a growing, changing people to policymaking, or as he wrote in 1908, to “bring the active and planning will of the government into accord with the prevailing popular thought and need.”59"
"42","These writings exhibit striking affinities with philosophical pragmatism. Echoing James's ethical writings, Wilson argued that individual liberty was dependent on what he called “common counsel,” the deliberative process that defined liberty's terms and protected its practice. In the process, he affirmed the basic premise of pragmatist ethics: the contingency of values. The ideal of “liberty,” he argued, could not be “fixed”; static liberty was “no liberty at all.” Liberty could only mean the people's collective freedom to experiment with institutions and shape them more effectively. This convergence of Wilson's thinking with pragmatism seems to have been directly influenced by James. Wilson's 1905 revisions of a speech first delivered in 1895 suggest that he read “The Will to Believe” (1896) sometime between those years, possibly anticipating or responding to a meeting at Princeton's 1896 Sesquicentennial, where James received an honorary degree. Unlike Wilson's 1895 speech, the revised version addressed the same conflict between religion and science examined in “The Will to Believe,” and defended religious faith in James's consequentialist terms. In fact, Wilson titled the later version “The Profit of Belief,” and explained humans' faith‐driven power to shape their personal and social realities in terms of their “wills to believe.”60"
"43","Whatever James's influence, it was not until meeting Louis Brandeis on 28 August 1912—some two months before Election Day—that Wilson made his pragmatist sensibility central to his message of reform. To that point, Wilson had outlined no specific economic policies, asserting instead that each party's platform was but a stab at America's “great questions of right and justice”—the overarching question being, “How do we expect to handle the great matters that must be taken up by the next Congress and the next administration?” For years, he asserted, such matters were “handled in private conference” by “men who undertook to speak for the whole nation.” Some were handled “honestly,” some not; but no matter how honest the handlers or laudable their objects, government by the few was “a poor substitute for genuine common counsel.” More than policies, Wilson hoped this idea—that “common counsel” was the best method of government—would distinguish his Democratic Party from the Progressives. He proposed, essentially, to apply the pragmatic method to politics by broadening the national deliberative discourse. But touting “common counsel” as “the meaning of representative government” was a far cry from describing its workings. Wilson needed both an example of how common counsel might look in action and a simple encapsulation of his policy agenda. Brandeis provided both. “We must undertake to regulate competition instead of monopoly,” the lawyer announced to reporters, alluding to Roosevelt's proposal to place trusts under government control. “[O]ur industrial freedom and our civic freedom go hand in hand and there is no such thing as civic freedom in a state of industrial absolutism.”61"
"44","The new motto, “To Regulate Competition Instead of Monopoly,” sharpened Wilson's message—and his attacks on TR. Lauding his rival's social goals, Wilson denounced his “central method” of “acting as a Providence” for the people, as if a “small body of men” could understand a nation. Wilson argued that the best means of understanding the nation was by listening to “the voices of all the men in it constantly clamorous for recognition of what is justice as they see the light.” As for concrete policies, Brandeis outlined for Wilson both the antitrust measures Democrats should promote and the pragmatist principles inspiring them. Effective policy required examining national economic data, legislating accordingly, and institutionalizing the process, making future legislation an empirical exercise. “Experience,” Brandeis wrote, revealed many “unreasonable” forms of economic combination that must be proscribed by “positive law.” But it also revealed the danger of anticompetitive methods yet unknown. Thus “an administrative Board” was needed, with “broad powers” of investigation and legislative initiative to alter policy “as we learn from experience.”62 Wilson's emendations to this letter (which he considered publishing) reveal the degree to which he internalized Brandeis's arguments as well as subtle differences in their thinking. Wilson never believed as deeply as did Brandeis in the intrinsic superiority of a small‐producer economy. Where Brandeis wrote of measures by which “trusts might be effectively disintegrated,” Wilson envisioned them “deprived of their domination and illicit power.” Still, Wilson was sufficiently convinced of the dangers of concentrated economic power to fear both trust‐ and government‐dominated industry as graveyards of material and social growth. His dog‐eared, underscored copy of Brandeis's Scientific Management and Railroads (1912) evinces his embrace of Brandeis's basic logic: Competition bred experimentation; experimentation, efficiency; efficiency, prosperity; and prosperity, the opportunities for personal development that self‐governing citizens required. If competition flagged, government must restore it, find a substitute, or risk stagnation. At its fairest and most‐productive, the economy would resemble an intense but civil conversation, conducted within a framework ensuring that a wide range of ideas were aired, tested, and communally judged rather than amplifying a few dominant voices.63"
"45","In sum, Brandeis helped Wilson articulate a pragmatist method for preserving self‐government in perpetuity, not merely restoring it in 1912. That, in turn, gave Wilson's campaign the intellectual coherence and political substance it had lacked. Returning power to the people, he told an Indianapolis audience three days after reading Brandeis's letter, required more than electing a “Progressive” as president. Roosevelt, he explained, sought to “assuage” rather than change the dire condition of self‐government by placing monopolies under government stewardship, attempting simultaneously to preserve monopoly power and restore lost freedoms. That involved denying “what the whole country knows to be true”: Economic freedom and monopoly power had proved incommensurable, and to restore lost freedoms required a “new freedom”—a freedom from any power like that of the trusts. In short, reining in the trusts was a symbolic first step in reconstituting government along lines that Wilson had imagined since the 1880s: responsive to the people's will and efficient in carrying it out. Restoring government to the people meant restoring their prosperity, giving them time and energy to participate in public life; and that required opening the doors of the economic laboratory as wide as possible. Here lay the difference between him and Roosevelt: the “engineering principles of liberty” each averred. Wilson thought that Roosevelt's emphasis on national unity as the essence of national strength led him to view citizenship too narrowly in terms of self‐sacrifice, with government the tool to elicit it. Wilson defined citizenship in what he considered broader terms of self‐government, a process in which self‐sacrifice and enlightened self‐interest played equal roles. Government should encourage the examination of interests to reveal convergent goals, facilitate discussions to determine the sacrifices they required, and translate the conclusions into policies; its task was to promote “a common understanding and a free action all together.”64"
"46","It is not surprising that the four‐way contest went to Wilson, choice of the united Democrats. More striking is that three of four votes cast went to candidates pledged to progressive platforms.65 Despite their candidate's loss, many TR supporters were excited for the future. Addams confessed that she had expected Wilson's win and was untroubled by it. Roosevelt's candidacy had eclipsed Taft's, focusing attention on the need for major reforms and ensuring that, as President, Wilson would “give heed to the necessities of the people as they have been so plainly apparent.” As Addams later recalled, Wilson did give heed, and her will to believe in a progressive ideal was at least temporarily vindicated. “Certainly,” she explained, “President Wilson's first term was characterized by a series of measures which induced many of us to vote for him in 1916.”66"
"47","What were those measures? Initially, most important were the Tariff, Federal Reserve, Clayton Antitrust, and Federal Trade Commission Acts. All began as attempts to institutionalize government by “common counsel”: responsive to the broadest possible array of interests, efficient in satisfying those interests it could, and open to challenge by those it could not. Tariff reform was a logical start. Though a venerable Democratic Party issue, it appealed to many who had campaigned for TR. Croly, Hand, and Rublee had argued for a tariff designed not merely for “diversification of National industries” but “promotion of the general welfare, social and economic.” Thus, along with lower average rates, they suggested establishing an independent commission charged with providing “complete information” to Congress and the executive, upon which schedules would be based and against which their “justice and wisdom” could be publicly assessed. In 1913, Wilson successfully backed a bill slashing average rates by 37 percent and instituting the first‐ever graduated income tax to recoup the forfeited revenue. Then, in 1916, he endorsed a Tariff Commission along the lines Croly and company drew, urging the House Ways and Means Committee to create a body to “provide the government with [the] necessary data to furnish [a] sound basis for policy.” The United States Tariff Commission was established for that purpose in September.67"
"48","The 1913 Tariff Act owed its passage to compromises that Wilson brokered between the original drafters and Senate radicals seeking a drastically increased surtax to redistribute wealth.68 Creation of the Federal Reserve, which rationalized America's chaotic banking and credit system, also depended on Wilson's penchant for ready yet boldly conceived compromise. With demands ranging from a centralized, privately controlled currency to a loose confederation of treasury note warehouses, Wilson needed both an economic and a political solution. Again, he consulted Brandeis, who halved his problems by collapsing economic and political into one. No currency bill would work, he wrote Wilson in June 1913, unless it could simultaneously “curb the money trust” and “remove the uneasiness among businessmen.” Within days, Wilson convened his Party's feuding factions to suggest a compromise embodying Brandeis's advice: the government would control the Federal Reserve Board (a nod to demands that government ensure access to credit), but not regional reserve banks (a nod to creditors eager to control inflation), and would be exclusively liable for Federal Reserve notes (giving it primary supply control and primary inflationary exposure). Wilson was searching not just for compromise, but for a scheme ensuring continued representation for all interested parties long after a compromise had been reached. An initially skeptical Carter Glass, Wilson's point man in Congress, was soon converted to the Brandeis–Wilson scheme, and doggedly pursued the votes to effect it. Wilson signed the Federal Reserve Bill on 23 December—establishing a system that has done as much to transform the U.S. political economy as has any other legislative innovation in the century since.69"
"49","Wilson's antitrust efforts similarly combined adherence to broad principles with willingness to compromise, assimilate new ideas, and adapt to changes in the political environment, while maintaining his commitment to frameworks permitting deliberation and experimentation over the long term. Wilson first took a vigorous statutory approach toward regulation of all “combinations.” When labor leaders complained that unions would not be exempt from prosecution, however, he sought common ground, proposing an amendment restricting injunctions and setting high bars for charging unions with restraint of trade. Initially rejected by Samuel Gompers of the American Federation of Labor, Wilson's compromise was accepted by labor's congressional allies in May 1913. Later, Gompers came around, profusely thanking Wilson for giving him the pen with which the Clayton Antitrust bill was signed into law a year later.70 By then, however, Wilson doubted that statute alone could accomplish the dual task of moralizing and energizing business. Again, Brandeis was the catalyst. In November 1913, he published an article proposing a commission to regulate trade with more sensitivity to changing circumstances. A month later, at the administration's request, Brandeis explained that winning over businessmen “large and small” required a “constructive policy” to supplement the Clayton Act's restrictions. “Capitalistic monopolies” should be distinguished from potentially healthy agreements between competitors, who should be immune to prosecution for the period of review. No statute could accomplish this; rather, “an Interstate Trade Commission” with investigatory, prescriptive, and constructive powers should be established to “stimulate new business” through close study of America's running experiment in industrial life.71"
"50","As in 1912, Brandeis's experimental approach appealed to Wilson. It also appealed to old Bull Moosers like Rublee, whom Brandeis enlisted to draft a trade commission bill outlawing “unfair methods of competition” rather than specific illegal practices. Rublee's bill became the focus of Wilson's antitrust program. Accused of raiding Roosevelt's toolkit, he appealed to a thoroughly pragmatist rationale. “Constructive legislation,” he explained, “when successful, is always the embodiment of convincing experience, and of the mature public opinion which finally springs out of that experience.” Wilson brought both public opinion and talents of persuasion to bear on Congress, and the Federal Trade Commission Act, authorizing a nonpartisan body to issue cease‐and‐desist orders to corporations and legislative recommendations to Congress, became law on 26 September 1914. Soon thereafter, Herbert Croly publicly endorsed Wilson's approach. By establishing a deliberative commission unconstrained by specific but imminently obsolete prohibitions, he wrote, Congress, thanks to Wilson and company, had created a positive governing organ rather than a merely regulatory institution.72"
"51","Over the next two years, Wilson continued attracting progressives who once supported TR—particularly the pragmatists among them. In 1915, the administration supported a cascade of social measures, including rural credits, child labor restrictions, a government worker's compensation act, and a more steeply graduated income tax. After helping to avert a national rail‐workers strike, Wilson supported the Adamson Act in 1916, the first federal law to establish an eight‐hour day. Meanwhile, he urged states to grant women suffrage, inching toward his eventual endorsement of national suffrage in 1918. Finally, he demonstrated his long‐term hopes for a pragmatist Progressive “ethical republic” by his nomination of Brandeis to the Supreme Court in January 1916.73 To former James student Walter Lippmann, the co‐editor, with Croly, of The New Republic, these efforts evinced the commitment to an “Integrated America” that progressives once sought in Roosevelt. They also demonstrated surprising adaptability. “Wilson,” Lippmann wrote in October, “is evolving under experience and remaking his philosophy in the light of it,” thus “temporarily at least creating, out of the reactionary, parochial fragments of the Democracy, the only party which at this moment is national in scope, liberal in purpose, and effective in action.”74"
"52","One group would have questioned this judgment. African Americans never earned Wilson's sympathy the way laborers, immigrants, and women eventually did. Like many white Americans, he doubted that a people so long oppressed had developed the cultural resources for self‐government—a view elevated to formal theory by his instructor at Johns Hopkins, Herbert Baxter Adams. He also assumed that the distinct historical and social experiences of blacks and whites created cultural barriers few on either side desired to cross—an assumption shared by most white Southerners and non‐Southerners alike.75 This prejudice and ignorance had regrettable consequences, beginning with Wilson's acquiescence in schemes to segregate federal offices.76 And yet, many Progressives overlooked his blotted record on race, including many pragmatists. Even as James's former student W.E.B. Du Bois shrewdly cast Wilson's failure to protect blacks as a failure to protect freedom itself, Wilson's reelection was endorsed by his pragmatist peers John Dewey and Jane Addams, both members of the NAACP.77 These two were not indifferent to the racial injustice persisting under Wilson. They simply thought his prejudice a defect rather than a necessary element of his Progressive vision. Federal segregation had not been his idea; he had provoked intra‐party firestorms by nominating blacks to federal posts, and signed a bill incorporating an affordable‐housing project (named for his late wife Ellen) for DC's black poor; might real change be possible?78"
"53","Whites like Addams and Dewey, of course, risked very little in believing that Wilson might evolve on race. Hoping the thrust of his politics would shift the whole society toward greater social justice, they chose to help that happen. A century later, it is a difficult choice to stomach. Croly, a late convert to Wilson, explained in general terms how such a choice could seem justified in 1916. In doing so he distilled the essence of Wilsonian progressivism. Despite many failures, wrote Croly, Wilson had committed the Democratic Party to “a continuing process of purposive national reorganization.” That process was constantly shaped by “the realities of the task,” yet steadily inclined toward an ideal end, the “enhancement of individual and associated life.” This evolving agenda implied a pragmatist belief that society was a growing thing, that the state must grow and change with it, and that the political, economic, and social spheres were as interdependent as the individuals inhabiting them. The moment, to Croly, was historic: “For the first time in generations the party has the chance of becoming the embodiment of a genuinely national democracy.”79"
"54","What came of this historic moment in the nation's political development? What relevance, if any, does it hold for contemporary American politics? Most historians recall a progressive tide contained, and eventually turned, by America's entry into World War I and the anti‐Wilson backlash following the peace. The true story is more complex. The war years saw unprecedented federal interventions in social and economic life, as literature on the Selective Service Act, Council of National Defense, War Industries Board, War Labor Board, Food, Fuel, and Railroad Administrations shows. To finance the war, Wilson secured two revenue acts designed to meet both fiscal and redistributive goals: the income tax covered one‐third of all war expenses, but was levied on just five percent of Americans in 1918.80 The rationale behind these policies was congruent with pragmatist progressivism, and often explicitly reflected its influence: Several of Wilson's wartime planners and personnel were disposed toward pragmatism, with Lippmann, Felix Frankfurter, and Wesley Mitchell among those consciously indebted. They, and Wilson, envisioned mobilization as a freely cooperative venture, with industry, labor, and consumers voluntarily working with government bodies designed to learn from the private sector as well as coordinate the activities of its various constituents. As attested by his failure to prevent wartime violations of civil liberties—even those orchestrated and perpetrated by his own cabinet officers—Wilson's pragmatist ethos often yielded to the exhausting strain and seductive power of a wartime presidency. Still, the executive agencies that mobilized the economy during World War I proved effective at the time and attractive long after, serving as institutional models for New Dealers committed to a democratic form of economic planning during the Great Depression.81"
"55","In short, the election of Warren Harding in 1920 did not obliterate the constructive legacy of the Progressive Era, despite the hopes and predictions of conservative critics. Nevertheless, the political system that developed over subsequent decades would strike the pragmatist‐progressives, at least, as ironic, exhibiting features combining some of their highest hopes with some of their worst fears. One such feature is today's widespread sense that politics should ultimately be accountable to national public opinion. As Sidney Milkis has recently argued, today's powerful presidency descends from Progressive efforts to streamline government's capacity to fulfill popular social and economic aspirations. Moreover, the national campaigns and parties facilitated by a strong presidency weakened the localism and sectionalism that many progressives saw as barriers to the larger national purposes they envisioned.82 These developments would hearten the pragmatist‐progressives, but each has an obverse that they might find problematic. The demise of locally rooted parties, for instance, has not created the more deliberative and cohesive national parties that pragmatist‐progressives hoped to see. Instead, direct primaries and caucuses have replaced national party conventions as the means of nominating presidential candidates, binding them and other party leaders to a range of uncoordinated and often incommensurable goals rather than a coherent legislative program. These phenomena correlate with the demise of associated life more generally, and an increasing focus on the relation of the individual, or individual interest group, to the state itself, as opposed to the fellow citizens it represents.83 Were they alive today, Croly, Addams, and Brandeis might very well lament the hegemony of a political discourse in which their ethic of mutual obligation is rarely echoed, while privileges, once bestowed, are soon reinterpreted as fundamental rights upon which the changing needs of fellow citizens can never infringe.         "
"56","For those persuaded of the existence and gravity of such problems, the pragmatists' role in the 1912 election can clarify their timing, causes, and potential solutions. Thirty years ago, political scientist Stephen Skowronek argued that the progressive project's ironic legacies stemmed from its incompleteness. Since then, others have blamed this incompleteness on Wilson's incoherent policies.84 In light of the preceding analysis, the first claim seems incontrovertible; the second, questionable. If the progressive project was essentially an effort to make political culture and institutions more flexible, experimental, and participatory, the Wilson administration's evolving policies hardly seem incoherent. Wilson's influence on New Dealers' visions for a revitalized American democracy, moreover, suggests that the wheels came off the project later, or at least more slowly and over a much longer period, than during his presidency, and for reasons beyond his personal failure to reorganize the American system all at once. That said, in the eyes of some who carried pragmatist‐progressive commitments into the 1920s and 1930s, a very different set of ideas began to undermine their common‐counsel model for the state as soon as Wilson left office. In this view, a series of Republican administrations backed by conservative interests capitalized on public weariness with wartime sacrifice to gain and retain electoral advantage. The same coalition then capitalized on public satisfaction with America's postwar economic dominance to roll back social legislation, and instead promote high but unequal economic growth that diverted attention from persistent deficits of political and social justice. When the Great Depression arrived, former Wilsonians and others of progressive inclination ran hard against the popular assumption that government existed to broker the demands of disparate interests rather than aid the formulation of common interests and negotiation of common sacrifices. In the view of its exponents, pragmatist‐progressivism did not fail; it was never given a proper trial.85"
"57","This account, however debatable its particulars, accurately conveys the paradoxical character of the 1912 election's legacy and indicates its possible lessons for today. Wilson's win changed the course of American politics, yet Americans are still fighting many of the same battles that raged a hundred years ago: battles over what they owe and are owed by the state and one another. Why do so many engage these questions, and each other, as adversaries rather than interlocutors? One hypothesis, suggested by the foregoing analysis, is that the political culture Wilson and the pragmatist‐progressives promoted failed to take root as permanently as the strong executive branch and active government they helped establish. The pragmatist‐progressives believed that without a broadly informed, politically empowered, prudently skeptical, yet civically‐minded public willing to join in tolerant debate over the goals that should guide policy, a strong state lacks accountability, misspends its energies, and exacerbates division and inequality. They promoted a political ethos that welcomed criticism, expected and depended on the lessons of failure, and held its theorists, practitioners, and citizens jointly and perpetually responsible for success.         "
"58","This cultural project—this vision of a “national democracy,” in Croly's words—might be worth reviving. Once again, capital has burst out of its institutional harness, and once again, aging institutions seem, in the eyes of many, incapable of protecting workers, consumers, or the democratic process from the corrupting influence of money and the divisive effects of rapid social change. Once again, many Americans seem to be searching for a middle way between laissez faire and socialism, but lacking the shared sense of mutual obligation and commitment to experimentation required to survey, construct, maintain, and perhaps even reroute that road over the long term. A century ago, some of the nation's deepest thinkers developed a sophisticated philosophical response to the same political and cultural problems. The history of their efforts to embody that philosophy in flexibly durable institutions illuminates the contingent origins and inertial character of the system within and about which Americans debate today, including the transformative and constraining role of ideas in its development. Perhaps it can also open imaginative space, once again, for the design of alternatives that maximize autonomy and opportunity for every individual, while establishing communal inquiry, inclusive deliberation, and experimental learning as the polity's chief responses to complexity, interdependence, and change."
