"","x"
"1","The book under review is an extremely ambitious volume, seeking to cover inter alia the entirety of the Chinese experience in Africa. While providing yet another overview of broad Chinese relations with the continent, the book is comprehensive. I imagine the authors sought to provide the definitive work on the subject. The problem is that such a wide and broad treatment of the subject has meant that much of the volume is dependent on what others have previously written. It is an excellent synthesis of past analysis, but in terms of original insight, the volume is less successful."
"2","The writing team is a curious mix. On the one hand, David Shinn is a former American ambassador to Ethiopia and Burkina Faso and has decades‐long experience. He is already a noted expert on Sino‐African affairs, and his views are always worth listening to. On the other hand, the co‐author, Joshua Eisenman, is apparently a graduate student. This makes for an unwieldy team, inasmuch as Shinn's original insights and policy implications, which would be the major strength of the book, are not as clear as they might be. This is a pity, because Shinn's understanding of the Sino‐African relationship is invariably perceptive and pragmatic. Joining such an experienced “Africa hand” with the student has resulted in a very large tome that in parts reads like a thesis, seeking to cover every base. Some academic experience would have avoided this."
"3","The rise of Chinese engagement in Africa is probably the most momentous process to have affected the continent since the end of the Cold War. Compared to the volume of trade China was doing with Africa only 15 years ago, the exponential increase in commercial relations has been nothing short of phenomenal. However, as the authors note, the collection of data on this is very problematic. The “largest problem” the authors confronted when studying trade connections between China and Africa was the “lack of reliable and consistent data” (p. 99), which meant that “Measuring China's foreign direct investment is an art rather than a science” (p. 131). This has long been a problem in the study of Sino‐African relations, and Shinn and Eisenman are not alone in facing this conundrum."
"4","The book has done a good job of bringing together existing work on the topic, and it does have a more‐nuanced understanding of Beijing than many other volumes. There are occasional references to interviews conducted by the authors. However, at times, it still makes the mistake, common in most other work, of treating “China” as a monolithic actor. Although the central government may have a broad Africa policy, it has to be mediated via the economic interests of private corporations and the political motivations and aspirations of local state officials, who, with growing autonomy, may not share the enunciated central vision."
"5","Ultimately, what Chinese foreign policy in Africa and elsewhere is, like all other countries' foreign policies, self‐serving and based on economic and strategic considerations. It should be noted that Chinese expansion into Africa is a natural extension of China's opening up to the world and its pursuit of capitalist policies that have been assiduously encouraged by all Western countries, some of whom now decry the results of this openness when Chinese practices are seen to be expanding into Africa. Setting such things to one side, the book is a valuable addition to the literature on the subject."
"6","                        "
"7","IAN TAYLOR"
"8","University of St. Andrews"
