"","x"
"1","Maarten Zwiers has written the definitive biography of Democratic U.S. senator James Oliver Eastland of Mississippi. Written partially under the direction of the great British historian Adam Fairclough, Zwiers's book offers a compelling account of the life and times of arguably the most despicable yet greatly influential U.S. senator of the twentieth century. Surely, Zwiers's work will serve as the standard account of Eastland for the foreseeable future."
"2","According to Zwiers, Eastland's political career personified the South's transmogrification from the bastion of the de jure Jim Crow caste system to the de facto segregated Sunbelt. In a compelling narrative analysis, Zwiers traces Eastland's early life as the scion of one of the most prominent white families of Mississippi. Eastland held blood ties and maintained personal relationships that transcended the usually separate worlds of his native hill country of East Mississippi and the rich bottom land of the Delta, where he ultimately built his business operations and political power base. Zwiers shows that Eastland played an irreparable role in most of the South's major acts of defiance to federal efforts to dismantle Jim Crow during the postwar era (1948–1973)."
"3","For Zwiers, Eastland's political acumen allowed the white South to repeatedly parry the more transformative thrusts of civil rights proponents. Although the 1948 Dixiecrat Party was composed overwhelmingly of southern state and local politicians—with just a few federal officials who collectively held little influence within confines of the Beltway—Zwiers believes that Eastland was critical to mitigating the punishment imposed by the national Democratic Party on him and other junior congressmen who overtly campaigned for the Strom Thurmond–Fielding Wright ticket. Zwiers reminds readers that Eastland's bombastic race‐baiting as the most outspoken and nationally recognized critic of the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education (1954) did not prevent Democratic majority leader (and today's liberal icon) Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas from appointing Eastland to chair the Senate Judiciary Committee. That perch allowed the arch‐segregationist Mississippi Democrat to legitimate massive resistance to federal edicts, control judicial appointments, stifle proposed civil rights legislation, and help ensure that the death of Jim Crow came slothfully on white southern terms, largely after rigid residential segregation pockmarked the former states of the Confederacy.         "
"4","In a compelling narrative of the byzantine world of postwar Mississippi state politics, Zwiers highlights Eastland's similar role as a power broker between state and federal officials during such transformative episodes as James Meredith's admission to the University of Mississippi in 1962 and the 1964 Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party."
"5","Zwiers's biography of Eastland is well researched and carefully written. But oftentimes, the author strays from Eastland to digress into other supposedly related matters, distracting the reader from the subject at hand. This distraction becomes especially problematic in the biography's conclusion, when, with little factual evidence, Zwiers condemns the reemergence of southern Republicanism in the wake of the Second Reconstructions as merely white southern racists Democrats like Eastland changing parties to preserve white supremacy. This reviewer hopes that Zwiers and other junior scholars will resist such obligatory posturing. Instead, let us follow up this otherwise fine book by engaging in the objective research concerning southern realignment in the 1960s and 1970s that this quality scholarship demands."
"6","Zwiers's work should be considered by scholars of Mississippi history, southern history, the history of postwar America, the civil rights movement, congressional studies, and postwar political and diplomatic history. This biography would also work well in undergraduate classes in southern history and Mississippi history, as well as graduate seminars on related themes. This book will also be an excellent addition to university libraries and other related collections."
"7","                        "
"8","JOHN KYLE DAY"
"9","University of Arkansas at Monticello"
