"","x"
"1","Reflecting on his 20‐year career as a state legislator, Dave Bishop provides a template for success in making public policy. The target audience is the legislator, but along the way, Bishop provides insight for academics into how the policymaking process advances, gridlocks, and what it takes to be successful in shepherding legislative proposals through the complex lawmaking process. With more than 200 authored bills and amendments passed into public law, Bishop, who spent most of his legislative career in the minority party, provides a prescription for navigating the tricky business of changing public policy."
"2","At the outset, Bishop takes the position that thinking solely along narrow partisan lines runs counter to the goals of elected office. Throughout the text, he contends that this type of narrow thinking will not lead to policy change—the primary objective of legislators. Instead, Bishop argues that legislators must build bridges within and between chambers, including with those of the other party, so as to reach a common goal. This is particularly important when legislators are in the minority, as it takes majority cooperation to pass legislation. Although some legislators are predisposed to not reach across the aisle so as to see the other party fail, others take the position that cross‐party collaboration can make for good public policy. By perceiving the role as the latter, Bishop contends that this is the only way policy change can occur. However, as students of legislative politics well know, legislators must also toe the party line when needed, and Bishop contends that letting their party leaders in on their work with the other party allows legislators to engage in the “tricky dance” of legislating."
"3","Bishop also points to important institutional features that impact legislative success. Here, he highlights the role of the conference committee as the final stop in shaping laws. As a minority‐party member in particular, getting on conference committees allows legislators to have a direct impact on public policy. Bishop offers a guide on how to get on these committees and stresses the importance of trust between committee members as they work toward merging bills from the house and senate."
"4","Furthermore, Bishop shows how to take an idea and transform it into public policy. Again, he highlights how minority‐party members in particular, through building bridges with majority‐party members, can get their policy proposals into committees and ultimately passed into law. Bishop also discusses the importance of collaborating with outside actors—interest groups, the governor's office, and executive agencies—and using the legislative calendar to one's advantage to push legislation through the process. Although legislating is difficult work, and getting policy proposals through the process can take many years, in the end, Bishop provides evidence that legislators that are persistent can prevail."
"5","In an era of confrontational politics, Bishop's take on the role of the legislator is a decidedly optimistic one, with an emphasis on making good public policy. Throughout, he points to the role of party leaders in shaping how the rank and file perceive and act on public policy. He also ties legislative behavior to elections by demonstrating how electoral considerations factor into how legislators make decisions in office and how those decisions can affect legislators’ ensuing electoral fortunes. In the end, it is up to elected representatives to carry the torch of democracy; this means working together toward common goals. Bishop's argument for bipartisanship in legislative politics provides insight into how this can be achieved—then and now."
"6","            "
"7","CARLY SCHMITT"
"8","Indiana State University"
