"","x"
"1","Frank Prochaska's elegant and engaging book explores American democracy through the eyes of the most‐prominent British political thinkers of the Victorian Age. He focuses on four men—John Stuart Mill, Walter Bagehot, Henry Maine, and James Bryce—and compares their assessments of the U.S. Constitution and the political life it engendered. The book is well‐written and thoroughly researched; it is accessible to a broad, educated audience; and it contributes valuably to the study of the American Constitution and its reception and influence abroad."
"2","The four thinkers Prochaska considers cover a broad range of the Victorian political spectrum—from radical to conservative, from enthusiastic democrat to staunch aristocrat. Still, their interest in American politics revolved around a cluster of common themes: They saw, in America, a portent of things to come in Europe, and they reflected on the leveling mediocrity of democratic life, the conservatism of the American constitutional design, and the cultural and political continuities between America and Britain."
"3","The Reform Act of 1832, ratified six years before Queen Victoria's accession to the throne, had empowered the British middle class and accelerated the British transition from aristocracy to democracy, and this transition was foremost in the minds of all four writers. Whether they admired democracy or reviled it, all associated American democracy with a certain uncultured mediocrity of mind and manners. All believed that moral and intellectual excellence were vitally important, especially in the political class. All struggled to imagine how such excellence could be insulated from the leveling, egalitarian pressure of democratic opinion. All were concerned, especially, by what seemed to them to be the dull mediocrity and crass partisanship of most American politicians."
"4","Three of the four authors (Mill is, for the most part, an exception) were especially interested in the relative conservatism of the U.S. Constitution. Here was a fairly inflexible constitutional order—insulated from change by a very demanding amendment process—that seemed designed specifically to thwart and constrain the will of the electorate. To Bagehot, this conservatism was a travesty, for it turned the Constitution into an eighteenth‐century straightjacket, crippling the government's capacity to act and precipitating the crisis over slavery. To Maine—the most conservative of the four—this very quality was exemplary. To him, the American Constitution showed how reckless constitutional change could be prevented, and he hoped that Britain would learn from it."
"5","Throughout the book, Prochaska pokes fun at the idea of American political exceptionalism. We learn, in the book's very first sentence, that the U.S. Constitution is “a republican substitute for hereditary kingship” (p. 1). We also learn that all four authors considered the American political order a mere adaptation of British principles, and therefore derivative. Prochaska mostly agrees; in any case, he thinks that Americans greatly underestimate the extent of their Founders's political and philosophical debts to Britain, and that these Victorian critics can help correct this mistake."
"6","If I were to venture a single criticism of the book, it would be this: it could have been more ambitious. Prochaska does not attempt to offer distinctive or original interpretations of the authors he studies, nor to plumb the depths of their political theories. The Victorian debate over democracy, he writes, “turned on the unresolved tension between liberty and equality” (p. 137). But he does not explore this theoretical tension in detail, nor reconstruct each author's conceptualization of it. In places, readers will therefore feel they are reading intelligent summary rather than critical or philosophical interpretation."
"7","                        "
"8","ALEX ZAKARAS"
"9","University of Vermont"
