"","x"
"1","This stimulating and carefully argued book makes a substantial contribution to the debate over how liberal states should respond to illiberal groups within their borders. The topic is timely and important, and even readers who disagree with Corey Brettschneider's positions will find that his arguments repay close attention."
"2","Brettschneider begins by distinguishing two approaches that liberal states might take when presented with those who deny the freedom and equality of all citizens. Neutralists say states should not take action directly aimed at undermining such illiberal norms (though they must protect citizens against harmful rights violations). Prohibitionists permit constraining such groups, perhaps denying them free speech, on behalf of liberal equality."
"3","Brettschneider sees each as problematic. Neutralism does nothing to avert the hateful society wherein citizens continue to endorse hateful or discriminatory ideals and to deny others' claims to equal freedom. Prohibitionism raises the specter of the invasive state, which might deny citizens important civil liberties and can lead to such outrages as (to cite a startling example that Brettschneider gives) children being removed from parents who seek to teach them racist norms."
"4","Brettschneider's simple but elegant solution, which he dubs “value democracy,” hinges on disentangling the state's coercive and expressive functions. While the former can lead unacceptably to denying citizens the freedom to exercise their moral powers, through the latter, the state respects citizens' rational capacities while still communicating its support for equal freedom and its disdain for illiberal ideals. Thus are both the invasive state avoided and the hateful society challenged."
"5","Brettschneider's argument raises three important questions. First, what exactly is wrong with directly curtailing the speech and activities of hateful groups? Though he asserts that liberal states must allow citizens “to develop and affirm their own political views” (p. 3), he recognizes as well the state's “fundamental interest that hateful or discriminatory beliefs do not spread in public discourse” (p. 140). In this conflict, why must free speech always win? I wish the book had said more to acknowledge the apparent paradox in insisting that liberal democracy must allow illiberal citizens to express ideas whose actualization is disallowed by the very political system they rely on."
"6","Second, will the state in its expressive capacity be significantly more effective than neutralism in preventing the hateful society? The United States, for example, already express its commitment to freedom and equality—for example, in honoring Martin Luther King, and in Supreme Court opinions stressing the equal status of all. To this, Brettschneider would reply that value democracy recommends the state go further in combating illiberal groups. The Boy Scouts should lose their tax‐exempt status for excluding gays, he says, and public school teachers should have diminished free speech rights outside school."
"7","That reply raises the third question: how firm is the distinction between coercion and expression, and what does the latter involve? Though Brettschneider stresses the difference between coercing citizens toward some cause and coercing them to pay money that the state will use to support that cause, it seems that in either case, the state treats the views of some citizens with less respect. Brettschneider also boldly defends a principle of “public relevance” that permits the state to transform inegalitarian beliefs at odds with free and equal citizenship. How far does this go? Is a religion suggesting that women wear headscarves open to such transformative efforts?"
"8","Such questions are inevitable in reading a book that manages to say so much, so well, about such an important and divisive issue. Readers will make up their own minds about how well value democracy can handle them."
"9","                        "
"10","DAVID MCCABE"
"11","Colgate Univesity"
