"","x"
"1","In this journalist's history of the second golden age of counterinsurgency, Fred Kaplan recounts the struggles of counterinsurgency advocates to convince a skeptical military and civilian leadership of their ability to restore order in Iraq and Afghanistan. He is a faithful chronicler of interested parties, an heir to the tradition of Polybius and Josephus. As in any work of this kind, he is a prisoner of his sources. The result is a story that is clearer than truth, a fitting but largely uncritical summary of the “COINdinistas”' case."
"2","This reliance on the testimony of his subjects obscures the Machiavellian genius of the advocates, first among them General David Petraeus. He and his disciples convinced many of their fellow warriors of the Hippocratic imperative of counterinsurgency: first, do no harm. But Petraeus's true genius lay in his ability to co‐opt skeptics inside and outside the military. His courtship of academics, non‐governmental organizations, and pundits bought him leverage in the bureaucratic battles inside the military and preempted or at least postponed the criticisms of academia. His sense of timing contributed more directly to the dramatic turn in Iraq; there, his willingness to ignore his own doctrine and push money and weapons to the turned insurgents of the Awakening was in keeping with his audacity and mastery of closed politics."
"3","While the book traces the development of the new doctrine, it does little to assess its validity. In both wars, there was at best a loose relationship between U.S. efforts to improve security, governance, and development and the process of state consolidation. Protecting the population and hunting down the “irreconcilables” undoubtedly suppressed violence in Iraq and areas of Afghanistan. The problems with the strategy were its cost and the absence of a termination mechanism. Removing U.S. troops or reducing U.S. payments to local self‐defense forces rekindled violent competition for power. Unpaid proxies sought new employers while host governments shied away from funding irregular forces that might challenge their authority. In the end, U.S. forces proved more effective at erecting the scaffolding of new states than at removing it safely."
"4","The contributions of governance and development to stabilization proved even more problematic. The doctrine held that some combination of apolitical administration and economic aid would satisfy grievances and connect communities to the central government. While bureaucratic mentorship, institutional design, and philanthropy were deeply gratifying, the relationship between these initiatives and the violent contest for power was more imagined than real. The leaders who emerged seldom matched the desired model of the virtuous, disinterested administrator: the most‐successful combined personal ambition, the selective application of violence, and a keen sense for the weaknesses of their countrymen and patrons. American distribution of public goods and services seldom produced lasting political goodwill or loyalty. Instead, such generosity often contributed as much to envy and corruption as it did to the attitudes of the populace."
"5","What Kaplan's account indirectly reveals is the intellectual shallowness of the doctrine. The “insurgents” were autodidacts, and their analysis of civil war and insurgency was predictably incomplete. The doctrine rested on pocket histories and theories of Algeria, Malaya, and Vietnam leavened with personal experiences in contemporary peacekeeping. If good scholarship is propelled by skepticism and measured in depth, the autodidacts were more inclined to collect ideas than to examine or test them. As Stathis Kalyvas has noted, the counterinsurgency renaissance relied on a grievance explanation for civil wars and ignored contradictory work by Samuel Huntington, Nathan Leites, and others that underscored the centrality of control. The search for genuine regional expertise was equally cursory. Nowhere was this more evident than in the “find/replace” application of the formulas of Iraq to Afghanistan. Whether in the study of civil wars or the specific understanding of countries or regions, the autodidacts' order of search was soldiers first, salesmen second, and scholars a distant third."
"6","At its best, this volume is a revealing, second‐hand autobiography of the authors of the doctrine. The book is at its weakest in connecting these ideas with outcomes. It dodges the two puzzles of Iraq: why did violence decline and what were the long‐term effects of counterinsurgency? Scholars have debated three rival explanations for the 2007 turn: the Anbar Awakening, the troop surge, and ethnic cleansing. Kaplan sidesteps this debate, suggesting that the doctrine's ideas exerted an indirect influence on the U.S. sponsors of an Iraqi Awakening that preceded the field manual's publication and the surge. Kaplan is largely silent on the impact of the U.S. campaign on contemporary Iraqi politics. Did the United States, to borrow Liddell Hart's phrase, forge a better peace, if only from its own point of view? Did Iran win the war? Kaplan highlights the challenges of exporting the doctrine to Afghanistan but does little to clarify the sources of its failure there."
"7","Establishing the fit between ideas and outcomes is central in such a book. Here Kaplan is unsatisfying, veering away from the big questions, pointing instead to difficult circumstances, unreliable and corrupt clients, etc. If these ideas matter, then we are obliged to demonstrate how, why, and in what measure they contributed to the outcomes. The risk is that some future generation will treat these ideas with greater reverence than they are due, with potentially tragic results."
"8","                        "
"9","COLIN F. JACKSON"
"10","U.S. Naval War College"
