"","x"
"1","Leah Wright Rigueur has produced a comprehensive examination of black Republicans' efforts to shape the direction of the GOP between 1936 and 1980. The book provides critical insight into an often discussed but little understood group. Black Republicans fascinate because their partisan choice is so out of line with our expectations of black political behavior. The unexpectedness of their partisanship challenges the associations we have about racial identity, black interests, and the reputations of the two major political parties. Those associations leave black Republicans with a complicated and often troubled reputation: they are seen as sellouts on the left but heralded as heroes on the right. Rather than rehash this reputation, Rigueur sheds light on the experience of being black and Republican. The book shows that experience is often defined by the challenge of reconciling black racial identity with Republican partisanship."
"2","A key contribution of the text is an illumination of the differences among African American Republicans. Rigueur documents a range of attitudes and behaviors among black Republicans, despite their small numbers. While notions of black respectability motivate most of their efforts, black Republicans come in all varieties: liberal, conservative, and neoconservative. They have differences based on their ideology as well as the extent to which they think race should animate their politics. This insight alone is enough to recommend the book, but Rigueur compellingly situates these differences in the context of broader shifts in the GOP."
"3","Primarily, black Republican activism is directed at making changes within the Republican Party. Rigueur convincingly demonstrates that the activities of black Republicans track with broader shifts in the direction of the Republican Party. The book highlights three phases of black Republican activism. The first phase started in 1936 as the New Deal was working to realign the partisanship of the black electorate. This period of activism is important because the black vote was still relatively fluid. From 1936 to 1966, Black Republican activists operated within a context in which it was still reasonable to think that the GOP could make significant inroads with black voters."
"4","The second phase of black party activity was organized in response to Barry Goldwater's nomination. During this contentious period, black party members organized at the national level for intraparty reform while simultaneously shifting attention to state and local politics as an avenue to pursue power within the GOP. The third era saw black Republicans in the 1970s operating within a party that had embraced the racial politics of Goldwater, but at a time when significant civil rights legislation had passed. This period offered black Republicans “a kind of freedom, or the leeway, to become more conservative, and adhere to mainstream party ideas about racial equality” (p. 10). The book ends in 1980, but the racially conservative black Republicans from this third era would come to stand in for our contemporary image of black Republicans."
"5","The arguments of the book are built on a rich trove of primary source material on black Republicans. In their memos, letters, policy papers, and manifestos, we see black Republicans struggling to exercise agency within the powerful constraints imposed by the leadership of the GOP. This struggle involved battling over both what it means to be black and what it means to be Republican. In this thorough analysis of the politics of black Republicans, Rigueur provides a powerful addition to wider scholarship on black political behavior."
"6","                        "
"7","COREY D. FIELDS"
"8","Stanford University"
