"","x"
"1","This book is a discussion of the ethical, legal, and political challenges of using armed drones (unmanned aerial vehicles) in U.S. military and intelligence operations. Many of the themes are familiar. The beauty of the book is that it pulls together key points into one well‐written narrative, placing drones within a broader strategic and historical perspective."
"2","The book's central argument is that the use of armed drones is corrosive to democracy, as it shields the populace from the consequences of the use of force. Armed drones thus create a “moral hazard,” increasing the incentives for states to engage in risky behavior. The authors argue that the United States is faced with “unprecedented strategic choices” (p. 17) comparable to those confronted in the aftermath of World War II."
"3","Divided into six chapters, Drone Warfare begins with a straightforward introduction to the technology and its recent history. The authors explain heated debates over the rate of civilian casualties and recent Barack Obama administration practices such as “signature strikes,” “personality strikes,” kill lists, and targeting U.S. citizens. The chapter ends with a warning about the proliferation of armed drones into the arsenals of dozens of other states.         "
"4","Having laid out the technology and recent controversies, the book has successive chapters on politics, international law, and moral questions. Chapter 3, “Drones and Democracy,” begins with a review of Immanuel Kant's classic argument that democratic polities will restrict a government's resort to war. The unfortunate loophole is that new remote technologies protect domestic voters and transfer all risk to the citizens of other countries. In the United States, armed drones thus undercut checks and balances on the executive branch's use of force."
"5","The next chapter, “Drones and International Law,” argues that the use of armed drones contravenes international law, particularly territorial sovereignty and the laws of armed conflict. However precise and discriminating the technology is, targeting decisions must always be based on fallible human judgments. The international community must create new legal frameworks for the use of drones so as to bring practice in line with prevailing international norms."
"6","Chapter 5, “The Ethics of Drone Warfare,” explains exactly how the use of remote technology erodes the moral connection between a populace and wars fought in its name. Here the argument overreaches in suggesting that U.S. drone culture and Nazi Germany “share a common attitude toward military mechanization” (p. 119)—even more so in drawing parallels with the German public's gradual habituation to the Holocaust. “Such deference on matters of national security describes the general ethos surrounding U.S. drone strikes quite nicely” (p. 123). This is unfair. As their footnotes attest, the authors are aware of prominent attacks on drone policy in the U.S. press, by various think tanks, and by numerous individuals in the United States and elsewhere. The Obama administration has been forced to respond publicly to this pressure—including in the president's May 2013 speech—and the number of drone attacks has decreased. The authors may consider the response inadequate (as other critics do), but drawing parallels to the Nazis goes too far and is unnecessary hyperbole in an otherwise balanced treatment. The key point of the chapter—that long‐standing ethical frameworks are failing to keep pace with emerging new technologies—is spot‐on and stands on its own."
"7","The conclusion reprises key arguments and offers sensible policy recommendations including increased congressional oversight, better export controls, more U.S. transparency, new laws, and new institutions. The book is an excellent resource for the general reader and will be valuable for advanced undergraduate and graduate courses on ethics, strategy, and international security."
"8","                        "
"9","AUDREY KURTH CRONIN"
"10","George Mason University"
