"","x"
"1","With congressional politics in turmoil and with an African American in the White House, it is surprising that Tyson King‐Meadows calls for Congress to take a more‐active role in protecting minority voting rights by circumscribing the discretion that the executive branch has in implementing the Voting Rights Act and the Supreme Court has in interpreting that legislation. The author dissents from the praise heaped on the Voting Rights Act during the 2006 renewal debate as the most effective civil rights legislation ever enacted and denounces Congress for not mandating more‐aggressive enforcement by the other branches."
"2","Rather than celebrate the advances in African American political influence, this volume focuses on items that members of Congress highlighted when deciding to extend until 2031 the Voting Rights Act preclearance requirements that affect all or parts of 16 states. King‐Meadows describes the role of Hans von Spakovsky in getting Georgia's voter picture ID requirement precleared to criticize the discretion available to the Department of Justice and the potential for politics to affect DOJ's review process. The author criticizes the Supreme Court's handling of two redistricting cases. He scolds the Court for tardiness when striking down the part of the mid‐decade Texas congressional redistricting plan that reduced the Hispanic concentration in one district and when deciding which Mississippi congressional plan would take precedence."
"3","The subtitle suggests coverage of more than four decades of voting rights enforcement. The volume lays out the rationale behind President Lyndon Johnson's design of what he described as “the goddamndest, toughest voting rights act that you can devise,” which relied heavily on presidential support for successful implementation. The attention then fast‐forwards to the content of much of the volume, which scolds DOJ's Voting Rights Section during George W. Bush's presidency for failing to guard against attempts to limit minority participation. While bureaucratic discretion comes in for heavy criticism, by skipping much of the time between Johnson and Bush ‘43, the author misses examples of bureaucratic over‐reaching so extreme that the Supreme Court rebuked the Justice Department for violating the Constitution. DOJ's aggressive use of Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act to require the creation of additional majority–minority districts in the early 1990s would seem grist worthy of King‐Meadows's mill."
"4","The author builds a first affirmative case that the bureaucracy and judiciary have too much discretion when it comes to protecting minority political activities. One of his criticisms is, in essence, that federal officials do not treat minority political rights differently from other concerns that come before judges and bureaucrats. The author identifies problems, but does not demonstrate that governmental response to voting rights issues is less aggressive, or slower, or less‐well‐funded than in many other policy areas. Although not his intention, this volume could serve as a text for demonstrating the complex interconnections among elements of our system of separate powers and the varied forces that seek influence. Such a system does assign a high priority to efficiency."
"5","The repeated calls for in this volume will probably go unheeded. Having extended preclearance for another quarter century, Congress is unlikely to revisit voting rights in the near future unless one of the challenges to Section 5 working its way toward the Supreme Court succeeds. To increase the likelihood of a major congressional rewrite along the lines envisioned by King‐Meadows will require a more‐compelling case identifying serious problems with the status quo than that sketched out in this volume."
"6","                        "
"7","Charles S. Bullock III"
"8","University of Georgia"
