"","x"
"1","As the world awaits the next development in the nuclear standoff between U.S. president Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, it is important to take a look at the role of the U.S. nuclear umbrella in the region, to gain some perspective on the risks that we are currently facing. Terence Roehrig provides such a historical review in his thoughtful new book."
"2","Roehrig begins with a crisp primer on nuclear deterrence theory. He then offers a detailed assessment of the capabilities of the main actors involved—the United States as well as North Korea and China, Washington's potential adversaries—and a rich analysis of diplomatic exchanges between the United States and its allies in the region—South Korea and Japan—from the early days of the alliance."
"3","Ultimately, Roehrig concludes that the U.S. nuclear umbrella is incredible but nevertheless useful. It is incredible because using nuclear weapons would impose unreasonable costs, slow down military operations, complicate reconstruction efforts, kill civilians in North Korea, and endanger others throughout the region, tarnishing American reputation (pp. 168–170, 188–189). Nevertheless, the U.S. nuclear umbrella is useful because it signals Washington's resolve to defend its allies—if only with conventional weapons. The umbrella also serves Washington's nonproliferation goals, undermining any argument that American allies need their own nuclear weapons (pp. 179, 193). Reflecting on recent developments, Roehrig concludes that in spite of the headlines generated by Mr. Trump's statements, the role of the nuclear umbrella in U.S. policy is likely to remain the same (p. 197)."
"4","Roehrig's analysis is rich and well presented, but it opens up important questions. How could threats be effective despite being incredible? How does the United States convince its allies that it is committed to their security and to nonproliferation?"
"5","Intuitively, the intention to use conventional power may best be signaled by commitments of conventional military power: deployments and joint military exercises. It is difficult to believe that a president would stand still as U.S. troops are attacked, even if such casualties occur “over there.” What, then, would be the extra benefit of a nuclear umbrella? Could a nuclear umbrella actually generate negative consequences? Especially since Washington reserves the right to use nuclear weapons first, the American nuclear posture could in fact exacerbate North Korean security concerns and increase the risks of escalation."
"6","Incredible threats can also undermine the confidence of U.S. allies. History has shown that threats of preventive action against North Korea lack credibility. The Bill Clinton administration considered a preventive attack on the North Korean program in 1994, but it relented because of the high costs involved and South Korea's insistence on avoiding war. Yet Mr. Trump has nevertheless chosen this very approach in dealing with North Korea. At the same time, Mr. Trump sowed doubts about the reliability of U.S. assurances, and Washington's commitment to nonproliferation, when he suggested that South Korea and Japan should do more for their defense, even if that means getting their own nuclear weapons."
"7","In sum, Roehrig describes a very delicate diplomatic balance in Northeast Asia, where a nuclear umbrella is effective despite being incredible and allies should remain confident in their alliance with the United States despite rash threats and vacillating statements of support. Readers may not share Roehrig's optimism that U.S. policy will continue to deter enemies and reassure allies. Even so, his analysis of the history of the U.S. nuclear umbrella is essential for anyone interested in understanding the dilemmas of U.S. nuclear policy in Northeast Asia."
"8","                        "
"9","ALEXANDRE DEBS"
"10","Yale University"
