"","x"
"1","A critical issue among public finance scholars has been who decides how city services are funded and allocated. Today, the political environment of budgeting is not merely the milieu of the budget analyst or the local official. Rather, budgeting is the lifeblood of city governance by acting as the blueprint that indicates priorities for the scope and delivery of public services. Typically, tensions arise because there are different levels of social and economic benefits to be gained by each participating stakeholder. Irene Rubin asserts in her classic study The Politics of Public Budgeting that the multiplicity of policy actors ensures that there are different and often clashing objectives pertaining to how tax dollars are spent.         "
"2","The typical focus on budgeting has been the involvement of technical aspects of taxing and spending priorities by public officials. Yet as city fiscal stress has become more prominent, the public acceptance of the provisioning of an optimal threshold of city services has become a critical component of the local budgetary process. It is from this perspective that Hollie Russon Gilman offers a refreshing alternative to most budgetary texts. City budgets are built around values in which certain priorities are articulated and manifested by the details of dollar allocations. Accordingly, Gilman asserts that rather than presume that city officials actually reflect their constituents’ interests, we ought to utilize newer modes of citizen participation in the budgeting process to articulate these priorities. In the past, most citizen preferences for collectively consumed public services were determined by citizens’ willingness‐to‐pay surveys, in which citizen choices were made with actual budget constraints. Budget choices were determined by service needs derived from technical experts, a very top‐down approach."
"3","Utilizing case studies from three cities (New York, Boston, and Chicago), Gilman suggests that a newer, innovative approach is the participatory budgeting model of civic engagement. This model allows the citizen‐consumer to deliberate “publicly over the distribution of, limited public resources” (p. 21) and arrive at decisions which can be feasibly implemented. In doing so, the participatory budgeting model can be “more creative than the normal urban bureaucratic process.” This is because it is a self‐legitimizing technique that will “confer legitimacy on a governance structure that genuinely engages people” (p. 38)."
"4","In all three case studies, she focuses on who participates and how well the ordinary neighborhood citizen‐consumer navigates the urban bureaucratic budgetary maze. Across the three cities, the similarity is that neighborhood citizen input is provided by committees, labeled “idea assemblies.” It is a three‐phase process in which residents identify neighborhood needs and either sign up or select budget delegates. These budget delegates then work closely with city agencies to create viable community projects. Finally, the budget delegates report back to the neighborhood assembly, which votes on budget priorities."
"5","Yet there are pitfalls. Participatory budgeting requires a long‐term commitment by members of the idea assembly. Such commitments are more likely within middle‐class and upper‐class neighborhoods, where residents not only have the individual resources but also likely are capable of navigating such urban bureaucracies. Gilman acknowledges that effective civic budgetary engagement requires facilitating skillsets on behalf of the assigned city bureaucrat to the assembly. In any case, participatory budgeting can open new channels of communication among residents and local officials as well as forge a collective communal identity among those who participate."
"6","Gilman has zeroed in on a critical concern for all budget officials—that is, how to instill substantive deliberative participation from an increasingly disconnected and fragmented urban polity that views governance as out of touch and in the hands of technocrats. I recommend this highly readable book to those classes of urban politics and budgetary policymaking."
"7","            "
"8","GARY A. MATTSON"
"9","Northern Kentucky University"
