"","x"
"1","Iran's 2009 “Twitter Uprising” against fraudulent election results demonstrated the potency of social media, and especially Twitter, for oppositional communication, the mobilization of anti‐government protests, and the documentation of security forces' deadly violence. While the Iranian authorities proved ultimately more effective in blocking the opposition's communications and utilizing social media for their own machinations, the situation is very different in democratic settings, where even information and communication technology‐challenged politicians recognize by now the value of social media to engage citizens and encourage debate in the virtual public space."
"2","In mid‐July 2012, as the campaign exchanges between Barack Obama and Mitt Romney heated up, the President's Twitter page listed more than 17.5 million followers and followed more than 675,000 Twitter accounts; the former governor of Massachusetts had nearly 700,000 followers and followed 247 Twitter accounts. At the same time, Obama and his team (5,000 tweets) out‐tweeted Romney and his aides (1,000 tweets) by far. These sorts of Twitter numbers are, however, no indicators for the outcome of elections, as the authors found when they analyzed the Twitter sites of candidates in 12 senatorial and gubernatorial races in 2010 (chap. 6): the candidate with the most campaign tweets, Harry Reid (456 tweets) won the senatorial race in Nevada, as did the candidate with the least tweets, Marco Rubio (1 tweet), in Florida. But based on their content analysis, the authors concluded (p. 204) that the framing of tweeted messages “did appear to have some influence on the election outcome” in that those of losers were more about “campaign strategy, ideology, or personal issues,” whereas winners were more apt in offering followers interactive features, such as URL links and reply opportunities. While tweets on Obama's and Romney's 2012 pages contained links to videos, photos, other Web sites, and all had re‐tweet, response, and “favorite” buttons, Obama's tweets offered far more opportunities for interactivity than Romney's. According to the authors' research, features that facilitate interactivity matter to political Twitter users."
"3","John Pamelee and Shannon Bichard present ample useful information about and comparisons between Twitter and other social media, especially in chapters 1 and 5, and an exhaustive review of communication research directly or indirectly related to social media, but it is their examination of what motivates people to follow political leaders on Twitter that provides a major contribution to the field. Based on their surveys and interviews of Twitter users, the authors identified several such motives, namely, “social utility, entertainment, self‐expression, information/guidance, and convenience” (pp. 64, 65). Most of all, the research found that Twitter followers look for interesting information that they can use in their interactions with others. This presents leaders with opportunities to have followers spread their messages to large numbers of non‐followers. Surveyed and interviewed Twitter users mentioned also a strong desire to communicate with leaders to express either support or criticism. While the researchers found that the wish to be entertained ranked high as well, interviews revealed that this was never the primary but rather an auxiliary motive."
"4","As for followers' actions in response to leaders' tweets, the research found that 9 of 10 persons looked at recommended information, and 6 of 10 re‐tweeted and, at times, signed petitions and made campaign contributions. This was also reflected on the Twitter pages of Obama and Romney, where the number of re‐tweets and favorite clicks dwarfed the replies. The authors are right in warning political leaders that the demonstrated influence of tweets does not always benefit the tweeting leader, because negative word‐of‐mouth, such as harsh criticism accompanying a re‐tweeted message, tends to spread faster and further than positive word‐of‐mouth, whether of the actual or virtual variety. According to the research reported here, Twitter users are about divided between those who follow leaders they agree with and those who also follow political figures they disagree with. But the most‐conservative and most‐liberal persons are far less likely to read the tweets of leaders they disagree with than less‐ideological users—a sign that Twitter does not lessen but rather reinforces, or even contributes to the stark ideological polarization in the United States."
"5","The research presented here provides for the first time an important insight into the reasons why Twitter users follow political leaders, how they use tweets, and what actions they take in response to tweeted material. One weakness may be that the pool of surveyed and especially that of interviewed users seems tilted in favor of those professionally working in politics."
"6","                        "
"7","BRIGITTE L. NACOS"
"8","Columbia University"
