"","x"
"1","Simon Reid‐Henry tackles two enormous questions: what are the causes of global poverty and inequality, and what can be done to ameliorate it? Reid‐Henry offers new insights by rethinking the premises of both questions. Too often, those interested in global poverty, he argues, focus on the poor (and poor countries) and what they should be doing differently. The great debate that ensues is an economic one that focuses on whether global aid and development policies are worth pursuing in light of their minimal success in reducing poverty. This debate, he argues, results in too much emphasis on economic growth as the sole measure of success rather than social prosperity and equality. As a result, global poverty and inequality persists."
"2","So, how did we get here and where do we go? Reid‐Henry argues that much of the blame rests with a Western‐style market in which notions of equality of outcomes are largely ignored. Market instruments and an obsession with economic growth and development have advanced the interests of the wealthy at the expense of the poor. For example, Reid‐Henry credits Paul Volcker's gutsy decision to raise interest rates in the 1970s with plunging “not just the United States but also much of the rest of the world into recession and unemployment” (p. 87). While neoliberal economic policies and free trade are presented as the prime culprits, Reid‐Henry also places blame on the left for selling out and joining in on market‐based solutions to these problems. Bill Clinton and other “Third Way” advocates are equally to blame."
"3","Economists and neoliberals will find Reid‐Henry's proposals as objectionable as his explanation for the causes of inequality. He argues for far greater investment in state capacity and the establishment of a “politically globalized world” with an international political system that can compete with the economically globalized system that has dominated. This system should include progressive tax policies, increased government intervention and regulation, resource redistribution, and active social policies (most notably, educational systems and training). Accomplishing this will be no small feat, but part of the plan would include increasing the power of the United Nations and the creation of a Global Public Investment Fund (GPIF) headed by the UN to promote not just development but also equality in outcomes."
"4","While the book is masterfully written, the analysis is not entirely persuasive. Social scientists looking for a book with clearly stated and empirically tested hypotheses will be disappointed. The author cites a wealth of examples to build his case, but critics will argue that these are cherry‐picked or misinterpreted. He points to Scandinavian counties as exemplars of how democratic socialism can work as an alternative; however, he significantly underplays the role that race and diversity play in inequality. The challenges that small, homogenous communities or nations face pale in comparison to those of large and highly diverse ones. Ultimately, his argument is a moral and normative one about political and social responsibility rather than an empirical test of the origins and determinants of inequality."
"5","In the end, Reid‐Henry's target audience will be those on the left who have long advocated an increase in state power in addressing inequalities exacerbated (if not created) by market forces. Thus, he is largely preaching to the choir. While he presents some innovate ideas (for example, GPIF), his plan relies too heavily on altruism and a collective sense of morality. For example, he writes that when banks and corporations protest this change, they simply must be reminded that they “have already enjoyed their own private ‘golden age’” (p. 152). I can already hear them laughing (all the way to the bank)."
"6","                        "
"7","DANIEL P. HAWES"
"8","Kent State University"
