"","x"
"1","As the title suggests, Andrew J. Taylor's 2012 book provides a detailed examination of the role played by the congressional floor. As the author notes, the floor is frequently absent from prominent theories of congressional behavior. Taylor argues that this is problematic, inasmuch as the floor “is a topic crucial to an understanding of what makes a good legislature because kinds of bodies we should want have powerful floors where members exercise robust rights and engage in proceedings of the highest caliber” (p. 181). He organizes his book into two parts."
"2","In part 1, Taylor provides three explanations for why the two floors differed procedurally. Specifically, he posits that the differing size of the two legislative bodies, changes in congressional workload, and the strength of the majority party in each chamber directly influence the restrictiveness of floor procedures. He also acknowledges the potential influence of several other factors, including path dependency, constituency size, and term length. Taylor finds support for his thesis using data on House rule changes and Senate efforts to limit obstructionism."
"3","Part 2 specifically examines two “popular views” of floor debate (p. 9). First, Taylor examines whether “the Senate enjoys floor proceedings of greater quality than the House” (p. 128). Second, he evaluates whether debate in both chambers has deteriorated over time. Taylor offers a number of theoretical explanations for why there may be support for these hypotheses. To test them, Taylor assembled two impressive new datasets evaluating the quality of floor debate. He reports that while the evidence is stronger for the Senate‐superior hypothesis, he finds “considerable confirmatory evidence” for both claims (p. 182). Taylor concludes by suggesting some rules reforms that he argues would improve the quality of the floor."
"4","The strength of this book lies in both its detailed attention to differing floor procedures in both chambers and in its original data collection. For example, the discussions of the evolution of the House's germaneness rule and of the previous‐question motion are both excellent. Additionally, Taylor brings in a number of interesting anecdotes that do an admirable job of supporting his data collection. In part 2, Taylor utilizes the index of the Congressional Globe and the Congressional Record to count the number of remarks by each member on the floor. This is an interesting and useful new dataset. Indeed, Taylor offers a detailed examination of the under‐studied congressional floor and manages to avoid utilizing the most‐exhaustively studied element of the floor: roll call votes. This is a monumental achievement on its own.         "
"5","There is some room for additional work in this area. By focusing solely on the floor, Taylor implicitly ignores factors that may influence floor behavior exogenously. For example, Taylor's measure of workload is derived from floor behavior. But those factors should fluctuate based on the quantity and content of the policy demands placed on Congress. Additionally, as Binder (1997) notes, changes in chamber rules should be influenced by need—not just opportunity. This is problematic on the Senate side, where several of the efforts taken to reduce obstructionism were preceded by a naturalization of chamber rules."
"6","Finally, while Taylor's analysis does a nice job of capturing the policy benefits provided by a naturalized floor, it largely omits members' electoral incentives. This makes sense from a clarity standpoint, but presents problems for the author's suggested reforms. For example, allowing minority members to offer more amendments and forcing more recorded votes might provide constituents with more “useful information about representatives' behavior and policy preferences” (p. 193). However, this also incentivizes members—who bear less responsibility for enacting legislation—to offer measures with little chance of being adopted for electoral purposes."
"7","This room for additional work aside, Taylor's book makes a valuable contribution to the literature on congressional politics. It tackles an under‐studied aspect of legislative politics in a detailed and innovative way. I am sure this book will be widely read and cited by congressional scholars."
"8","                        "
"9","ANTHONY MADONNA"
"10","The University of Georgia"
