"","x"
"1","It is unusual for a book to accomplish its stated objective and yet disappoint as greatly as does this volume. As promised, it delivers “a broad‐based profile” of Latino social characteristics, group relations, policy positions, and political orientations. This is presented in the form of seemingly endless tables that are essentially merely more‐recent versions of what is available from prior national surveys such as the 1990 Latino National Political survey, which it replicates and expands, several Pew Hispanic Surveys conducted since the turn of the century, and the Kaiser Family National Survey on Latinos in America. As such, this is valuable, but its long‐term utility will depend primarily on when the data are superseded by the results of future surveys."
"2","What is disappointing is that the study does not offer an analysis of Latino political life. That is, we are provided great amounts of data on major topics, but instead of analysis, the volume consists of a mind‐numbing number of contingency tables, many of which are presented in cluttered formats that obfuscate rather than clarify. The authors, nonetheless, offer interpretations of the contents of the tables. The value of this exercise is minimal, because there is no effort to explain in social scientific terms what the tables depict. Rather than explanations of electoral engagement, or of attitudes toward abortion, or of support for governmental support for minimum incomes or for amnesty, the text shows how SES or citizenship is correlated with key political variables."
"3","The volume's failure to analyze the data is especially troubling because the study begins by indicating that it will confront major misconceptions that define how the nation sees Latinos. These include demographic images that portray Latinos as overwhelmingly comprising immigrants who remain socially separated from non‐Latinos and who limit their social world to other Latinos, including both co‐nationals and others. Rather than use the new data to test the validity of such generalizations, the authors offer rather straightforward descriptions that add little to our understanding of Latino political life."
"4","The study has the potential to provide new insights into Latino political life, but inexplicably, the study never takes on that challenge. Indeed, it so emphasizes description that the authors seem oblivious to hypothesis testing or theory of any type. For example, this study is virtually silent regarding the construction, meaning, and consequence of identity. Contingency tables cannot tell us what shapes identity nor how it impacts political behavior, cerebus parebus. Similarly, given the nation's fear of the extent to which Latinos retain political loyalties to their home countries, the study does not tell us about the variables that shape political transnationalism among Latinos nor how transnational political activities influence Latino engagement with the American polity."
"5","Similar problems are evident in the chapters dealing with electoral life. We are told how income, education, gender, and nativity co‐vary with electoral involvement, but there is no discussion of how being contacted by campaigns impacts voting after controlling for these and other characteristics. In short, the data set includes all the key variables related to electoral engagement, but the study does not develop and test explanations to measure their relative impact."
"6","The study has several stories to tell. I suggest three that would not have required much more than what has been done but which would have made this the standard for years to come. The first concerns ethnic identity. The authors state that Latinos can be analyzed as a single group, yet virtually all the tables include a national origin breakout. Why? The implication is that national origin overrides shared identity. How does that happen? What is it that shapes Mexican attitudes and behavior that is different from how those factors affect Colombians or Guatemalans? This breakout by national origin suggests that the authors have a view of ethnicity that has not been articulated. Relatedly, is ethnicity a categorical, ordinal, or continuous variable? Language ability, for example is a continuous variable, but the study offers no analysis of how differences in linguistic abilities affect identity. It is reasonable to hypothesize that a fully bilingual Latino's sense of ethnicity differs from that of individuals who know one language well and the other only slightly. As defined here, however, Latino is a categorical variable: respondents either are or are not Latino, but the text suggests that a more‐complex operationalization of identity is needed. By explicating the factors that determine ethnicity, the authors could have added both to our understanding of Latino ethnicity and to its impact on national life."
"7","The second story concerns the two worlds Latinos inhabit. The first is the immigrant's world. The tables in the volume suggest that immigrants live in a different social space, one dominated by Spanish and co‐ethnics. What is the politics of that space and what variables shape it? Systematically explicating the details and nuances of that world would be invaluable. Perhaps all the negative stereotypes ascribed to Latinos are really characteristics of immigrants. The study could have determined that. The second would be on the world of the native‐born. What are its contours and how do they shape politics? Is there a clear permanent bridge between the former space and this one that the native‐born help maintain, or do the native‐born weaken that linkage and create impediments to prevent its being crossed."
"8","Finally, a third story consists of regional difference in Latino attitudes and behavior. The LNS is unique in that it includes a nationally representative sample of Latinos as well as representative samples of numerous states. The text, however, makes no mention of the latter. Are there no state‐based differences? If they exist, is that because state institutions and political culture are of greater significance than ethnic or demographic variables? It is most puzzling that the authors ignored this level of analysis."
"9","The authors touch on most of these topics, but they do not offer any analysis that answers the key questions about Latino political life. Had they dealt systematically with either of these stories or with others, the study would have realized its promise."
"10","            "
"11","RODOLFO O. DE LA GARZA"
"12","Columbia University"
