"","x"
"1","With evidence of growing income inequality in the United States, there is increased scholarly attention to questions about equality of influence in American politics and public policy. The theme of this book by three eminent scholars is that inequality in political participation is pervasive in American politics. Kay Lehman Schlozman, Sidney Verba, and Henry E. Brady document in voluminous detail the extent to which political activity is dominated by those with the most resources."
"2","The book is long, partly because it reveals data accumulated over the past 50 years, a wealth of public opinion data measuring citizen participation, and a catalog of interest groups in Washington, DC. The authors define “political voice” broadly as any efforts by citizens or interest groups to influence government action (p. 10). The first section of the book provides context for the evidence to come. The authors argue that equality in political voice is critical for democracy, but they acknowledge that Americans are ambivalent about the value of equality."
"3","The second section of the book examines inequality in citizen political participation. Much of the evidence shows a positive and enduring relationship between socioeconomic status and numerous measures of individual political participation, such as voting, donating to a campaign, or joining an interest group. The class bias in participation is persistent in part because its sources, like educational attainment, are often passed from one generation to the next within families."
"4","Schlozman, Verba, and Brady also provide some evidence about the consequences of class bias in individual political activity. They report, for example, that politically inactive people are more likely to support universal health care. They also argue that participatory inequality contributes to political polarization in candidate and party positions, contrary to the predictions of the median voter theorem. The ideological gap between Democrats and Republicans has grown over time primarily among the wealthiest and most‐active members of the two parties."
"5","The third section of the book describes similar class biases in the constituencies represented by organized interests in Washington (the book's title is inspired by a frequently cited sentence in Schattschneider's classic study of interest groups). The authors make an important point that interest group politics facilitates the conversion of market resources into political advocacy (p. 368). Thus, the vast majority of interest groups are institutions rather than citizen groups. Furthermore, executives and professionals are massively overrepresented in the interest group community, and there is relatively little interest group activity on behalf of the poor. Even the rapid expansion of the interest group universe (the number of groups in Washington has doubled since 1980) has done little to alter the class bias in group representation."
"6","The final section of the book examines the prospects for reducing participatory inequality. The authors are not optimistic about broad societal transformation. For example, they note that networks for recruiting people into politics have the same class biases as observed in patterns of participation. Similarly, they find the same positive relationship between socioeconomic status and most measures of political activity via the Internet."
"7","Some of the evidence in this book may look familiar to readers of previous work by these authors. However, the power of this book is that so much data on inequality in political activity are provided in one source. Any evaluation of the health of American democracy has to reckon with the vast body of evidence presented in The Unheavenly Chorus.         "
"8","                        "
"9","DAVID C. KIMBALL"
"10","University of Missouri–St. Louis"
