"","x"
"1","Partisanship is a dirty word with a bad reputation. Instead, scholars have advocated bipartisanship in theories of the common good, and politicians promise the same in their campaign speeches. Yet in the American political system, parties are seen as essential to democracy by serving myriad critical functions. For example, they hold elected officials accountable, engage and educate the citizenry, and form legislative majorities. Russell Muirhead's thought‐provoking volume is a defense of “better partisanship, not less partisanship,” which he calls the “party spirit.”"
"2","The first part of the book both defines and defends party spirit from a theoretical perspective. It is the good side of partisanship that provokes citizens to vote, volunteer, and unite in protest. Party spirit inspires us to become good democratic citizens. It also brings politicians together to advance the common good. It is akin to the feeling we get when our favorite team is winning, but it also motivates us to put up a good fight when our team is losing. Good partisanship is also knowing when to concede. It does not ask us to leave our principles, convictions, and disagreements behind, but it requires loyalty to the partisan mission (but not blind loyalty), memory (of accomplishments and failures so that goals can be realized), and patience (successes are celebrated and gradually become part of the “brand”). Party spirit does not mean we always agree, but that we disagree in a noble way (pp. 55, 264)."
"3","The second half of the book makes the case for the party spirit within America's democratic institutions. Muirhead defends the closed primary that can bring more people into the electoral process and allow them to choose the nominees, but only if those voting are partisans. People must have a stake in the process that is achieved by having a connection to a party. Muirhead's solution is a “civic education for partisanship,” which would give citizens a stake in every electoral contest by instilling political opinions (that is, partisan views) (p. 168)."
"4","Partisanship is most acceptable and necessary in the legislature to organize and form coalitions. Party spirit does not ask legislators to leave their partisan convictions or ideological biases behind. Instead, it asks legislators to find common ground (not necessarily the middle ground) on which policies to make for the common good (p. 141). Suggestions include a “Speaker of the Whole House” to move legislation and changing the rules of the game so that partisans who work together are not punished if a “latent majority” is present and seeks to act."
"5","The party spirit is least desirable in the executive and the judiciary, yet all branches are political and partisan (p. 204). Muirhead focuses on the presidency in his defense, arguing that the president should be “above party” (p. 206) by keeping in line with the virtues of “high partisanship”—“convictions, principles, and conceptions of the common interest” (p. xii)—and repelling “low partisanship” liabilities linked to campaigns and elections—“strategy, power, and ultimately, victory” (p. xii)."
"6","In the end, Muirhead's book is a contemporary response to the conundrum famously posed by James Madison in The Federalist, No. 10 of the “dangerous” yet essential “vice” of parties in a democracy. Theorists will enjoy Muirhead's reflections of partisanship through the likes of Aristotle, Madison, Alexis de Tocqueville, John Rawls, E. E. Schattschneider, and the authors of The American Voter, to name a few. Empiricists and institutionalists will be pleased with the examples of partisan spirit throughout history to promote the common good and those that were merely partisan sour grapes. Appropriately, Muirhead leads by example. He engages in the party spirit himself by giving equal time in his examples to Democrats and Republicans.         "
"7","                        "
"8","MARIJA ANNA BEKAFIGO"
"9","University of Southern Mississippi"
