"","x"
"1","It is always a pleasure to read something by Jonathan Kirshner. His style is lucid, informed, and replete with a wry sense of humor. Above all, he is emphatic. Not for Kirshner are the meek caveats of classical scholarship. His intention is to tell us what he really thinks, in as unvarnished a fashion as possible. The advantage of his approach lies in its bluntness: bold claims are permitted. The disadvantage is that it leaves room for lesser mortals to poke holes in his arguments.         "
"2","With this book, Kirshner joins a long‐running debate over prospects for American power in the twenty‐first century. Is the geopolitical supremacy of the United States in decline? On one side are optimists who cite America's many enduring strengths, both economic and political. Kirshner, however, places himself firmly on the side of “declinists” who see little reason to doubt that U.S. primacy is coming to an end. In his words, “U.S. relative power and influence are eroding. . . . global tides are shifting” (p. 15)."
"3","Why? For Kirshner, the turning point was the global financial crisis of 2007–2008, which he describes as “an important inflection point in the trajectory of international relations” (p. 2). He offers three central contentions. First, the crisis brought an end to what he describes as the “second U.S. postwar order.” Second, the crisis accelerated the relative decline of American power. Third, the crisis has brought about a “new heterogeneity of thinking” with regard to ideas about how best to manage money and finance. After a brief introduction in Chapter 1, the argument is spelled out in four historical chapters that take us from the Great Depression to the crisis itself (Chapters 2–5) and in three chapters to its aftermath (Chapters 6–8)."
"4","Throughout, Kirshner makes many wise observations, particularly about the causes of the crisis, which surely demonstrated the folly of relying on self‐regulation in the operation of financial markets. The “market fundamentalism” that came to dominate economic thinking, rejecting the Keynesianism that had earlier prevailed in policy circles, is the essence of Kirshner's “second U.S. postwar order,” which he dates from 1994 to 2007. Looking back, it is indeed hard to understand how Washington could have come to accept and even promote a “metastasized financial sector irretrievably riddled with systemic risk” (p. 82)."
"5","But along the way, Kirshner scatters some broad assertions that are, to say the least, debatable. His carving up of time into two precisely dated “orders,” for instance, has heuristic value but is surely a caricature of historical reality, which is rarely quite so schematic. Nor does it seem fair to blame the United States exclusively for the transition from Keynesianism to market fundamentalism that occurred in the 1980s and 1990s. Many other nations were equally wedded to the new paradigm, which was already codified as part of the Washington Consensus as early as 1989. The United States may have been the leader of the orders Kirshner describes, but it was hardly alone and sometimes not even the main source of ideas."
"6","And what about the decline of American power? The case is crystalized in Chapters 6 and 7 with a focus on the international role of the dollar, hitherto a source of great influence that Kirshner now sees as fated to decline. The greenback will suffer encroachment by both China's yuan and Europe's euro. The yuan will prevail because the Chinese government wants it to, as if all that is needed is determination. The euro, despite its current travails, will succeed because its problems will, “one way or another, be resolved” (p. 161), without saying exactly how. These seem like particularly weak reeds on which to rest such a weighty argument."
"7","                        "
"8","BENJAMIN J. COHEN"
"9","University of California, Santa Barbara"
