"","x"
"1","Planting sod or laying Astroturf? Edward T. Walker's new book investigates whether professional consultants who organize grassroots campaigns on behalf of paying clients are rightfully conceived of as gardeners, carefully tending organic growth into desirable forms, or as manufacturers producing an ersatz substitute from artificial materials. While he describes a number of colorful instances of the latter—such as Citizens for Fire Safety, a supposedly independent group of concerned citizens revealed by the Chicago Tribune to be a front group created and funded entirely by producers of fire‐retardant chemicals—Walker's claim is that such examples are unrepresentative.         "
"2","The true function of public affairs consultants, he argues, is the selective activation and mobilization of constituencies that share a preexisting—and therefore authentic—interest in achieving the client's goal. This process gives rise to what Walker terms a “subsidized public,” in which intervention by consultants selectively lowers the barriers to participation among certain groups whose interests happen to coincide with those of the consultant's clients. Applying Mancur Olson's classic logic, we can expect such selective intervention to lead to an unbalanced pluralist playing field and, presumably, differences in policy outcomes."
"3","For readers with some familiarity with the political science literature on lobbying, this concept will bring to mind Richard Hall and Alan Deardorff's model of lobbying as legislative subsidy, a paper that is curiously uncited here. Just as in the analogous lobbying case, consultants can be effective without the need for any explicit quid pro quo relationship by making political participation easier for certain people: those inclined to favor the client's position. By providing prewritten letters, aiding mobilization efforts by friendly organized groups, and other similar actions, consultants can potentially shape the set of constituents whose voices are likely to be heard by their representatives in Congress."
"4","Walker also documents consultants engaging in activities analogous to informational theories of lobbying. Consultants provide relevant constituencies with information selected to induce a desired response—for example, an “action alert” warning an industry employee group of potential job losses that could result if a tax break is allowed to expire. Unlike in the lobbying case, however, such communication is usually not direct but rather travels through the communications networks of existing organized interest groups."
"5","Regardless of the theoretical mechanism, the interesting questions for most political scientists are likely to revolve around consultants' effectiveness: are they able to influence public opinion and public policy in a way that favors their clients' interests, relative to a counterfactual world in which consultants do not exist?"
"6","On this score, the book left me wanting more. The data, which were meticulously gathered from hundreds of interviews with and surveys of individual consultants working at more than 700 firms, nonetheless consist almost entirely of self‐reports of consultants' perceptions. As a result, Walker spends a great deal of time discussing things such as how and when firms are formed, the industry background of firms' partners, and the composition of firms' client lists. His measure of the success of consultants' campaigns comes from, again, self‐reports, which have an unsurprising upward bias."
"7","The primary policy‐relevant question that Walker addresses is whether consultants' involvement increases or decreases participatory inequality, that is, whether consultants subsidize the participation of people who would have participated anyway or draw in new constituencies whose voices would otherwise be underrepresented. On this question, his outcome measure is a survey question that, even if accurately reported, is too vague to provide much guidance."
"8","In sum, there is much to like about this book. It makes some interesting connections between the public affairs consulting industry and the related industries of lobbying and campaign consulting. The interview excerpts and survey data provide a coherent picture of the industry's origins, activities, and self‐image, which is likely to be of interest and utility to researchers working in the field. For a general political science audience, however, the lack of conclusive evidence on the political consequences of the industry's rise may disappoint."
"9","                        "
"10","GREGORY J. MARTIN"
"11","Emory University"
