"","x"
"1","In this work, Nicholas Lardy has provided a succinct, yet detailed analysis of China's response to the financial crisis and prospects for policies designed to maintain high levels of economic growth. This book provides an important addition to recent scholarship on the Chinese economy through its balanced analysis of competing explanations of recent Chinese policies on the Chinese economy."
"2","Lardy's primary argument is that imbalances in the Chinese economy have not been altered by incremental reforms enacted over the past eight years. He states that drastic liberalization of exchange rates, interest rates, and factors of production (oil, electricity, water, etc.) are required. Lardy claims that without such reforms, distortions in the Chinese economy will continue and will result in further slowing of both the Chinese and world economies. In its five chapters, this work presents an overview of the Chinese stimulus plan, sources of imbalance in the Chinese economy, policy options for Chinese rebalancing, and international implications of such rebalancing."
"3","How has China responded to the global crisis? In answering this question, the work's primary value is not the detailed analysis of incremental policy measures that exacerbated overinvestment and a shrinking share of consumption in the Chinese economy. Rather it is the author's systematic and detailed rebuttal of competing arguments describing the effects of the Chinese stimulus plan. Specifically, this work refutes the oft‐cited theory that the Chinese stimulus plan, through expanded credit to Chinese state‐owned enterprises, slowed reform of the Chinese economy and caused a retreat of the private sector."
"4","The stimulus plan allowed China to emerge from the financial crisis “in an unusually strong economic and financial position” (p. 43). However, the author points out significant structural imbalances that have existed since the early 2000s, the most salient of which include “China's heavy reliance on investment and exports to generate growth; the relatively low and still declining share of consumption to GDP; and a sharp increase in the national savings–investment imbalance, reflected in the emergence of an unusually large external surplus” (p. 2). The author deals with each of these imbalances in detail, describing their drivers and linking them with policy options. Lardy rejects two frequently cited “policy light” (p. 115) measures to rebalance the Chinese economy: a scenario in which rising wages would increase consumption, and measures to expand consumer credit. The author presents convincing evidence for their rebuttal: A lack of growth of the per‐unit labor costs relative to Chinese trading partners; and low levels of credit demand among households, respectively. Instead the author identifies more‐fundamental reforms to the financial system that are needed. These include expanding the market's role in determining the value of the Yuan and liberalizing interest rates, as well as factors of production, which include water, fuel, and electricity."
"5","But will these policies be adopted, and if so, what can the world expect from them? The author paints a picture of stagnating reform attributed to competing ministries, interest groups, and consensus‐driven politics. This work ends on a sobering note, with Lardy noting that in the absence of major reforms, China will continue to capture production growth worldwide, driving its external surplus, which has the potential to cause “an aborted global recovery, making it harder for the United States and countries in Europe to deal with their fiscal challenges” (p. 132)."
"6","                        "
"7","ERIC WARNER"
"8","RAND Corporation"
