"","x"
"1","Stephan Haggard and Robert R. Kaufman probe the causes of the “third wave” of democratic transitions since 1980 and the reverse wave of transitions back to autocracy, which has been accelerating over the past decade. Their main target is the popular thesis that economic inequality hinders democratic transitions and that rising inequality may lie behind the trend toward reversions. Based on statistical analyses and probing case studies, they find, at best, episodic support for the inequality thesis: overall correlations are weak, and causal mechanisms frequently fail to match the logic of the theory. Haggard and Kaufman's own arguments, which highlight a “weak democracy syndrome,” emerge inductively from complicated patterns in their empirical findings. They provide grist for further theoretical work rather than a fully worked‐out alternative."
"2","Much prior scholarship on transitions and reversals makes claims about facilitating conditions such as fairly high per capita income, economic equality, a diversified economy not dominated by oil, a useable legacy of predemocratic political or administrative institutions, prior resolution of problems of national identity, an educated populace and organized civil society, and an international setting featuring democratic neighbors and great powers. Other scholarship describes transitional processes, such as a political opening in which the ruling elite splits into factions, creating opportunities for pluralistic bargaining or mass mobilization. The inequality thesis propounded in different variants by Daron Acemoglu and James Robinson and by Carles Boix encompasses both facilitating conditions and a corresponding logic of political process, as does the Haggard and Kaufman critique."
"3","Their book examines 78 transitions to democracy and 25 reversions to autocracy between 1980 and 2008, as well as a few more recent case studies not included in their statistical datasets. Arguing that this time period is more valid for understanding contemporary democratization than studies based on earlier history, they find that inequality performs poorly on tests of correlation and mechanism. Transitions to democracy were common in cases of high inequality (pp. 50–51). Separating transitions instigated by mass protests over economic distribution from those initiated by elites, Haggard and Kaufman find many distributional struggles in cases with low inequality, as well as high‐inequality cases in which cleavages were based on ethnicity or other nonclass issues (pp. 72–73, 97). Reversals of democracy were not especially associated with inequality, and in the reversals that did feature inequality, the causal mechanism was rarely distributional conflict (p. 253)."
"4","Despite this lack of support for inequality theory, Haggard and Kaufman nonetheless build many of their own arguments around the distinction between distributional and elite‐led transitions derived from that theory. They found that distributional struggles were more likely to lead to democracy when the predemocratic regime had fairly strong facilitating institutions such as a legislature, well‐developed civic associations and capacity for collective action by labor, and good governmental performance (pp. 30, 65–67). Elite‐led transitions, in contrast, featured international pressures and elite rivalry between reformers and conservatives (p. 143). Reversions to autocracy, whether spurred by elite or populist reactions, were not affected by inequality but rather reflected a “weak democracy syndrome” featuring a history of military coups, militia violence, and weak political institutions (pp. 219–259)."
"5","Acknowledging the complexity of these patterns, Haggard and Kaufman say that “an overarching theory of transitions may be a chimera” (p. 344). This conclusion may be premature. Arguably, organizing their analysis around tests of the seemingly flawed inequality thesis complicates the search for a more parsimonious theory. A cleaner theoretical logic stemming from their findings might proceed from their insights about the emergence of new social classes as a result of economic development (p. 57), collective action by those groups, and their adaptation of predemocratic institutions of law and representation for democratic purposes."
"6","                        "
"7","JACK SNYDER"
"8","Columbia University"
