"","x"
"1","The lie that inspired this book is: “I am from the government, and I am here to help you” (p. 9). The book, which focuses on social welfare policies in the United States, distinguishes a “residual model” and an “institutional model” of policymaking (p. 14). Residual policies are the social safety net: targeted (often means‐tested), temporary, and compensatory. By contrast, institutional policies do not require “a shortcoming or disability to qualify for services” (p. 15). The Social Security Old Age program is offered as a model of institutional policymaking."
"2","Richard Gelles contends that residual policies do not work. This is a consequence of federalism, specifically, the tendency for the federal government to create a general policy framework that leaves program details to the states. “Various forces” at the state level work to expand eligibility and “the residual policy becomes a gusher of spending and a virtual open‐ended entitlement” (p. 20). Residual programs ultimately fail because public employees respond to perverse incentives. Bureaucrats benefit from having a large pool of cases (creating resource demands and job opportunities); consequently, they expand eligibility while limiting the resources that are available to serve people in need. The result is a bloated bureaucracy with an unmanageable caseload that provides scant assistance to its clients."
"3","A later chapter lists “programs that work.” Given the earlier discussion of federalism, the 1996 welfare reform is an odd choice for the list. Certainly, means‐tested cash assistance is a residual policy, and the legislation provided a general framework for cash assistance that allowed states to specify program details. Gelles counts it as a success however, because it reduced welfare caseloads. Why state welfare bureaucrats were immune to the perverse incentives that are thought to occur in these circumstances is not explained."
"4","The “Blueprint for Change” is a universal cash transfer payment to “every legal resident of the United States” on their eighteenth birthday (p. 81). The proposal is to set aside $3,000 annually beginning at birth for every child so that $54,000 will have accumulated over 18 years. Curiously, Gelles specifies that the accounts “would not generate interest” (p. 81). The money can be used to purchase a home or to finance educational expenses. To finance the accounts, Gelles proposes eliminating child income tax exemptions, reducing federal aid for higher education, eliminating selected earmarks, and instituting a value‐added tax. Apparently youths who turned 18 just before the creation of the cash transfer are out of luck. Their equity complaint is not acknowledged."
"5","Political scientists will be disappointed that so few connections to the established literature are evident. William Niskanen, who identified self‐interested bureaucratic behavior as a problem, is not cited. Gelles advocates universal policy designs without mentioning Theda Skocpol or William Julius Wilson. Attempts to explain how dysfunctional policies persist do not mention “policy feedback” or cite contributions by Paul Pierson, Anne Schneider and Helen Ingram, or Jacob Hacker."
"6","Finally, after recommending an expensive new cash transfer program, The Third Lie concludes that “there is no more money” (p. 127). Gelles thinks that we throw good money after bad when we finance residual social programs. He hopes his universal cash transfer will do better. However, the book's policy evaluations are polemic, drawing broad, impassioned conclusions on the basis of limited evidence. My concern is that Gelles has exaggerated the case against residual policies, programs that have always been a prime target for the budget knife.         "
"7","                        "
"8","ROBERT P. STOKER"
"9","The George Washington University"
