"","x"
"1","Naunihal Singh's book is the best analysis I have seen of how and why coups unfold as they do. It focuses on the day or few days of the coup itself, with less attention to the plotting stage or the reasons plotters decide to attempt to oust the incumbent government. By putting the days of the coup itself under the microscope, Singh develops the theory of military seizures of power as coordination games far beyond the argument to that effect that I made some years ago."
"2","In coordination games, multiple individuals separately decide what to do based on what each thinks others will do. All individuals want to take the same action as most others even more than they want to take their own favored action. Battle of the sexes is a coordination game. Singh uses a series of very detailed studies of coups and coup attempts in Ghana between 1967 and 1981 to show that soldiers' grievances against the incumbent do not predict which side they will take during coup attempts. Although officers rarely mount coups against popular incumbents, Singh shows persuasively that even deeply aggrieved soldiers do not join those who have taken up arms against the incumbent unless they believe that other soldiers will do so. Regardless of which side they personally favor, most officers will remain on the fence until they can tell which way the rest of the military seems to be leaning, as expected in coordination games."
"3","The predominance of fence sitting early in the coup means that small events that appear to show which direction others are taking can cause swings from one extreme to the other. Singh's major theoretical contribution to the basic idea of coups as coordination games is his analysis of the importance of public information about who supports the coup in determining which side most officers choose. His main empirical contribution is the very detailed description of how those who seek to replace a government and those trying to block the coup use public speech, especially meetings of officers and radio broadcasts, to shape others' beliefs about the amount of support for each side. Many observers have noted that coup makers often seize radio and television stations as well as symbolic targets such as the presidential palace even before trying to secure military installations in the capital. Singh explains this regularity as the plotters' effort to shape the beliefs of other officers about who will win.If other officers believe that the coup will succeed, the plotters need not take the military installations by force because they will not resist. The importance of radio at the time and place of the coups that Singh examines, however, raises questions about whether any small number of media sources could play the same role now."
"4","Singh's analysis of the differences in coup strategies available to senior, mid‐level, and lower‐ranked soldiers also adds to our understanding of military politics. He explains why coups led by junior officers and noncommissioned officers succeed less often and tend to be more violent than coups led by more senior officers."
"5","All in all, the book makes a substantial contribution to our understanding of how coups unfold and what determines whether they succeed. It does not have much to say about what motivates officers to stage coup attempts, however, and thus engages most other studies of coups from an oblique angle rather than as a straightforward challenge. The statistical models lack indicators that reflect prominent theories about motives, making them less useful than the qualitative studies."
"6","                        "
"7","BARBARA GEDDES"
"8","University of California, Los Angeles"
