"","x"
"1","I began exploring public health policy and politics 25 years ago in a world quite different from the one thoughtfully assessed in this analytically penetrating volume. Back then “health” uttered by a political scientist or economist nearly always meant “health care” construed as domestic public and private arrangements that delivered or financed the delivery of defined categories of services by doctors and hospitals. Questions of cost and access loomed large, as now, but primarily as concerns of individual national governments and with “public health” considered, if at all, as a decidedly secondary domain, especially in nations developed enough to have middle classes that took matters like immunizations and basic sanitation largely for granted. Analysts barely spoke of “global” anything, much less “global health,” and international relations had only recently begun to blossom beyond its traditional terrain of state‐centered security and diplomacy. As Colin McInnes and Kelley Lee recall, “Orthodox International Relations… created little space for the consideration of health issues. In particular, health appeared to International Relations scholars as a domestic concern largely unrelated to matters of international security” (p. 26)."
"2","These days, the intertwined global movements of people, products, principles, profits, and pathogens have compelled a transformative blend. McInnes and Lee capture a new analytic reality in an insightfully critical way. By employing a resolutely constructivist lens (using the now‐commonplace notion of “narrative” to emphasize that understandings of reality arise within communities embracing assumptions that may go unchallenged) to examine the variety of frameworks that have emerged, they highlight a wide array of potentially problematic aspects embedded in ways of thinking that are, to some degree, embraced by nearly every significant analyst and policy actor on the global health scene."
"3","They are, for example, deeply skeptical of the “New Outbreak Narrative” that highlights novel infectious disease threats as a focus for an emergent global health agenda. Despite the substantial appeal of the narrative, they say, it is important to note that “non‐communicable diseases cause far higher rates of morbidity and mortality worldwide, killing over 36 million people in 2008… yet garner far less scholarly and policy attention.” And even within the infection category, diseases with “epidemic potential” capture far greater attention than “others which account for a far higher global burden of disease” (p. 36). Thus this narrative offers, like every other, not an objective, value‐neutral understanding of the world but rather one that “privileges certain interests and issues.” Similarly, the authors argue that the narratives supporting the points of linkage between health and foreign policy have “privileged certain ideas, interests and institutions over others” (p. 53) such as security and governance over, say, human rights because this leaves the state, and those who serve it, in the driver's seat."
"4","Approaching this book as an admitted past participant in bolstering the “new outbreak” obsession, I believe this book usefully synthesizes a vast ongoing discourse, pushing us to reconsider the values and interests lurking in an array of apparently “objective” analytic predispositions. One wishes that the authors had made a bit more of their concluding points, that “civil society is not necessarily always a progressive force” and that “greater plurality can mean an even greater lack of coherence in global health action” (p. 163). Moreover, frames like “social justice” and “human rights” may also empower identifiable interests, ideas, and institutions in ways that deserve some critical distance."
"5","                        "
"6","CHRISTOPHER H. FOREMAN, JR."
"7","University of Maryland"
