"","x"
"1","How do Americans think about energy, and what kind of energy future do they want? Given the importance of energy to our economy and environment, one might expect extensive polling on these subjects. But, as Stephen Ansolabehere and David M. Konisky point out in Cheap and Clean: How Americans Think about Energy in the Age of Global Warming, public opinion data on energy‐related questions are episodic and incomplete. Filling this gap provides a central rationale for their book, which presents and analyzes results from a multiyear study of Americans' attitudes toward energy technologies and policy.         "
"2","Their research reveals that Americans think about energy in pragmatic terms. People's attitudes about energy are relatively stable and shaped by two key attributes of the fuels themselves: price and environmental harm. The authors dub this the “Consumer Model” of energy policy preferences, claiming that “energy is not a highly politicized issue” (p. 201). Energy appears to be one of the few policy areas that has escaped partisan polarization, at least when it comes to the public."
"3","While the title of the book suggests that Americans want energy that is both cheap and clean, the data show that the public puts much greater weight on the environmental impact of different fuels. This helps explain the public's preference for increasing wind and solar power generation and decreasing the United States' reliance on traditional fossil fuels. The authors are keen to point out, though, that the public mistakenly perceives solar and wind power to be cheaper than they are, and when confronted with their relatively high prices, support drops somewhat."
"4","The final chapters of the book focus on climate change opinion and policy, and here the authors largely confirm existing research that shows a growing partisan polarization around climate change along with chronic low issue salience. The most surprising finding is that the public is more enthusiastic about direct regulation of carbon emissions (which economists claim is the least effective and efficient approach) than it is about carbon taxes or cap‐and‐trade programs. Ansolabehere and Konisky argue that this stems from Americans' overarching concern with the local impacts of energy production and consumption, and they advise climate change activists to frame their solutions in terms of combatting local pollution rather than forestalling distant global problems."
"5","In the end, readers may wonder how much public opinion really matters when it comes to shaping the nation's energy policies. The authors assert that it does, but they provide scant evidence beyond a few examples. They acknowledge a significant gap between what the public wants and our existing energy mix, but their conclusion that “the American marketplace . . . has proved remarkably robust at meeting what the public wants” (p. 211) does not take into account the divergence between public preferences and reality. According to the U.S. Energy Information Association, renewable energy sources (including hydropower) supplied only 10 percent of total U.S. energy consumption in 2014. Meanwhile, the United States leads the world in oil and gas production."
"6","Why are we so far from what the American public wants? The answer is politics, of course, which the authors deemphasize. For example, the book does not mention the power of the fossil fuel lobby or the climate change denial movement, even when explaining public attitudes toward climate change and mitigation policies. Public opinion may be reassuringly “rational” when it comes to energy, but our politics and policy are leading us down a treacherous path to an increasingly warming and potentially unlivable world."
"7","                        "
"8","SARAH PRALLE"
"9","Syracuse University"
