"","x"
"1","Walter Frank has written an engaging account of the evolution of the modern gay rights movement, with a particular focus on the broad scope of legal claims the movement has generated. The book's signal achievement is its accessible and compelling prose. Frank translates legalese into English, and he tells vivid stories that drive home the human cost of antigay discrimination. Moreover, he packs a lot of law, history, and politics into a small package, making his book an excellent primer for undergraduates and laypeople interested in either the gay rights movement or the study of law and society."
"2","The first third of the book lays out a chronology of the emergence and progress of an organized movement for gay rights in the years between 1945 and 1992. Up until the 1980s, Frank argues, the primary goal of lesbians and gay men was freedom: freedom from state harassment and arrest, freedom to express themselves, and freedom to gather with others. However, the overwhelming demands of the AIDS epidemic radically transformed the lives of lesbians and gay men, and by the 1992 elections, a new emphasis on equality and full integration into American society was beginning to coalesce."
"3","It is this search for equality that most captures Frank's interest. After two prefatory chapters, one discussing larger sociopolitical trends concerning gay rights and the other discussing varying beliefs about the nature of homosexuality, Frank devotes the rest of the book to an examination of the various legal domains in which battles over gay rights have been fought. In addition to the all but obligatory discussions of sodomy law reform and marriage equality, Frank examines adoption and custody, employment discrimination, military service, antigay violence, and schools‐including tensions over the establishment of Gay‐Straight Alliances, inclusive curricula, and freedom of expression. His purpose in each instance is to show how statutory and constitutional law, together with federalism and other institutional features of the American polity, have shaped legal outcomes."
"4","This is emphatically an introductory‐level book. Readers seeking in‐depth jurisprudential analysis will be disappointed, as will those seeking extended analyses of the arguments and litigation strategies undergirding various gay rights cases. While Frank touches on the great majority of key cases, he glosses over most of them. The work is a synthesis of existing scholarship rather than a set of original claims. And while Frank has clearly read extensively, it becomes obvious at several points that he is not a long‐term scholar of the gay rights movement. He sometimes fails to recognize competing viewpoints, suggesting limitations in his knowledge. Notably, his contention that the outcome of the 2004 presidential election “might have” (p. 91) been affected by the placement of constitutional amendments on the ballots of 11 states that year relies on only one source and never notes the existence of alternative analyses. His definition of queer theory is bizarre: “To an outsider, queer theory, viewed most positively, is neither queer nor a theory but rather an impulse to look at things in a way that values formality and rigorous logic less than a willingness to trust one's own set of impressions and insights” (pp. 168–169). Queer theorists, who seek to understand how sexuality is created, normalized, and policed, would be surprised by this definition. Even Frank's language use is jarring. He uses “gay” as his default term for both men and women without any explanation for that choice, contra the more accepted usage of “lesbians and gay men” or “lesbian, gay, and bisexual people.” These caveats aside, Frank has crafted an engaging and informative read, sure to spark discussion in classrooms and book groups."
"5","                        "
"6","ELLEN ANN ANDERSEN"
"7","University of Vermont"
