"","x"
"1","Peverill Squire has produced an epic, ground‐breaking tome on the development of state legislatures over the past 400 years. Scholars have examined the causes and effects of the 1970s and 1980s state legislature professionalization revolution using the leverage provided by cross‐state variation. Squire himself is the dean of this field. But in this new book, he expands his vision considerably, using the over‐time variation in the development of these institutions to explore the basic question: Why are today's American legislatures structured as they are?"
"2","While there is significant cross‐state variation in the details of state legislatures (for example, in their professionalism), there is remarkable similarity in their basic structure: bicameral (except for Nebraska), and with similar legislative rules, processes, committee systems, and leadership. The naïve explanation for this broad similarity is that the states followed the model of the U.S. Congress. But readers of Squire's earlier work know that it was actually the colonial legislatures that served as the model for the authors of the U.S. Constitution."
"3","Squire's basic thesis is that since the establishment of the Virginia House of Burgesses in 1619, American legislatures have worked to develop internal structures that would allow them to serve their governmental function, leading to an evolution of institutionalization and professionalization that followed similar paths among the states. These structures developed organically from similar pressures and goals. Rules, committee systems, leadership, and so forth were developed to address the basic collective action problem to which these bodies were subject. This evolution was also nurtured by new legislatures freely copying and appropriating institutions from their more‐established predecessors. For example, when the California legislature first met in makeshift digs in San Jose in 1849, it did not have to create its institutions from scratch (pp. 174–180). While over 1,000 miles from the nearest state capitol, and almost 3,000 miles from Washington, DC, these lawmakers borrowed heavily from the experiences and institutions of Iowa and other states, helped by members who had formerly served in bodies in Texas and Indiana. The efficacy of this legislative model is evidenced by the fact that the basic structures developed in the colonies—briefly abandoned in the revolutionary period—were quickly reapplied after independence. In the end, Squire argues, state legislatures have strong institutional similarities because of their similar roles in government, their similar organizational challenges, and the progressive modeling processes that they followed."
"4","Squire scoured the historical record to piece together evidence to test his theory of legislative evolution, examining ancient legislative manuals, newspapers, letters, books on individual states, and the few available academic studies. Working more like an historian than the political scientist he is, Squire provides extensive detail and description, weaving a compelling narrative filled with on‐point and as well as curious anecdotes. For example, we learn that the Barbados legislature provided an important model for some colonial bodies (p. 11), Alabama once had quadrennial legislative sessions (p. 271), and a “peripatetic pig” in Massachusetts helped establish bicameralism in American legislatures (p. 17)."
"5","Squire directly challenges the notion prevalent in congressional studies that American legislative institutions result from the striving for partisan advantage. Because of his emphasis on institutional goals as the motivator of the institutionalization process, rather than the goals of the individual lawmakers, his evolutionary account will be challenged. While Squire may have added fuel to the fire of this debate, there is no doubting the singular accomplishment of his documenting the lineage of legislative development in the states. This book has no real predecessor, and accordingly, will serve as an important reference work for at least a generation."
"6","                        "
"7","CHRISTOPHER Z. MOONEY"
"8","University of Illinois, Springfield"
