"","x"
"1","This ambitious book is more a collection of essays than a tightly woven monograph. Philip Kretsedemas is interested in how the U.S. government constructs illegality, and in the larger context in which immigration debates occur. It is significant, he argues, that anti‐immigrant rhetoric and policy have arisen in a time when social and employer benefits have diminished. Economic and social stratification is growing, and not, he points out, because immigrants are taking jobs at the bottom of the employment ladder. Anti‐immigrant rhetoric and policy is thus a diversion from the debate that should be occurring over the corporatist approach that the United States is taking to enhance its global competitiveness."
"2","The federal government is attempting to satisfy the apparently unquenchable thirst for more enforcement by steadily ramping up deportations, a project it began in the late 1980s. Nearly 400,000 people are now deported yearly from the nation's interior. The new emphasis on deportation, paradoxically, co‐exists with a hearty welcome for visitors, temporary workers, students, and some professionals. Some of them decide to stay, but regularizing one's status is an arduous process. Kretsedemas is critical of the uncertainty these would‐be settlers face, and their vulnerability to deportation, a status he likens to statelessness. What he does not discuss, surprisingly, is the virtual statelessness of legal permanent residents who, because of a criminal conviction, are forced to return “home” to a nation they may hardly know."
"3","The book is also surprising in its treatment of the rapid rise of state‐level legislation directed at unauthorized immigrants. Kretsedemas attributes the steady rise in these sub‐national policies not to federal inaction in adopting comprehensive immigration reform, but to a 2002 Department of Justice memo claiming that local police have inherent power under the U.S. Constitution to enforce federal immigration law. This memo, which did not go through the usual vetting process, is inconsistent with former policy and court precedents, and perhaps for this reason, was not openly acknowledged by the George W. Bush administration. It has never, however, been explicitly revoked. Arizona cited it in its brief defending its state‐level immigration law (SB1070)."
"4","Kretsedemas takes a step back from policy developments in chapter 5, in which he discusses national identity. The immigration debate, he points out, is not just about whether high levels of immigration make economic sense. Many people worry that changes in the nation's demographics threaten the cultural and social glue that holds the nation together. Although seldom discussed openly, racial fears are also in play. Will the United States be able, Kretsedemas asks, to give up defining itself as a white‐majority society? The author addresses such questions with a detailed discussion of the writings of Samuel Huntington, Robert Park, Friedrich Nietzsche, and others, although he never makes explicit the link between these thinkers and public anxieties."
"5","The book concludes with a discussion of the federal government's suit against Arizona's immigration law, returning the reader's attention to the federal executive and its growing influence on immigration policy. The executive exercises power through its control of a bureaucracy replete with discretionary powers and through presidential initiatives, a recent example being the Obama administration's decision to defer action against young people who would have been eligible for the DREAM Act. While Kretsedemas seems to over‐emphasize executive action in some parts of this book, for example, in explaining the rise of state and local immigration law, he is on the mark in warning of the dangers of policy‐by‐executive action. Kretsedemas argues for a more‐democratic process in which public officials would openly debate America's need for immigrant labor and the public would come to see national identity in broader, more‐diverse terms."
"6","                        "
"7","DORIS M. PROVINE"
"8","Arizona State University"
