"","x"
"1","The Constitution implicitly promises that no person is above the law, and charges the president “to take care that the laws [are] faithfully executed.” The usual harmony of those norms is disrupted when an executive branch official is a suspected wrongdoer. And the closer the alleged offender is to the president or to the justice department, the more likely the executive branch will fail, or be perceived to fail, in its law‐enforcement duty."
"2","During the last four decades, America has often addressed this problem by delegating prosecutorial responsibility to an independent counsel or special prosecutor, to operate with little or no supervision from administration leaders. These arrangements present their own perils. Some observers, like Justice Antonin Scalia, question their constitutionality. Others deem this approach unfair to the target or susceptible to abuse from the administration's political opponents, especially in the contentious modern political environment. An unaccountable prosecutor assigned one case operates in a unique context. And even the possibility of designating an autonomous prosecutor does not sideline administration officials from making important decisions regarding whether to refer a matter, and, under non‐statutory systems, choosing a delegatee."
"3","David Alistair Yalof examines this vexing problem in this short volume. He explores the contextual factors that sometimes make normal prosecutorial process precarious and that warrant arrangements independent of administration control. These factors include the attorney general's association with the president and/or target; whether the investigation involves the president, vice president, or a justice department official; whether the suspect is connected to the administration; whether elections are imminent; and whether the opposition party is positioned to exercise effective oversight. Drawing from archival and primary and secondary sources, he succinctly presents 26 case studies from seven presidential administrations (Nixon to Bush 43) to illuminate the subject."
"4","Yalof concludes that recourse to special prosecutors creates problems, often unnecessarily, since ordinarily career personnel can best ensure that political corruption is investigated and prosecuted in a principled, consistent, and fair manner. Yalof argues that the efficacy of in‐house investigation and prosecution may depend heavily on the presence of an “outer circle attorney general,” that is, one with “no longstanding personal or professional ties to the president” (p. 27), whose reputation for independence and credibility may engender public confidence when calls for autonomous handling are appropriately resisted or in the selection of particular special prosecutors. Yalof concludes that presidents who fail to recruit such an attorney general may subsequently incur high political costs."
"5","Yalof's insightful study helpfully identifies and examines relevant variables in decision making in this difficult area. Yet handling these problems well presents only one consideration that should properly guide a president's choice of an attorney general. An outside attorney general may have less influence on other important matters. Yes, Edward Levi, Gerald R. Ford's outer‐circle Attorney General, was highly effective; yet so, too, were Herbert Brownell and Robert F. Kennedy, who, in different ways, played important political roles in electing the presidents they served. Their impressive records in office contrasted with those of other close presidential associates like Griffin Bell, Edwin Meese, and Alberto Gonzales. Richard M. Nixon appointed Elliot Richardson four times to Cabinet or near‐Cabinet‐level positions, yet that did not stop Richardson from resisting Nixon's intrusions on the autonomy of Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox. These examples may suggest that skill and circumstances are also important, that presidential proximity provides advantages as well as disadvantages, and that the desire to systematically prescribe behavior often must yield to contextual qualifications, here and elsewhere."
"6","            "
"7","JOEL K. GOLDSTEIN"
"8","Saint Louis University School of Law"
