"","x"
"1","This provocative book declares that India's ascendance will have an impact on the global scene not only through its accumulation of power resources but also because it incites us to “think differently about prosperity, power and history” (p. 264). India matters most, Maya Chadda asserts, because of its distinctive processes of state formation, political economy, and foreign policymaking. In elaborating these arguments, Chadda surveys Indian history, contemporary political economy, and foreign policy. Generalists will find that her eloquent prose provides a lucid account of the Indian experience, while specialists will be provoked by Chadda's counterintuitive contentions."
"2","Chadda rejects realist approaches emphasizing India's accumulation of power resources in favor of a constructivist perspective. She points out that realism cannot explain the coincidence of India's ascendance at a time when its central government's authority is in decline. In a dynamic post–Cold War world in which a new order is yet to emerge, Chadda prefers Eric Ringman's analytic framework (in Power in World Politics, edited by Felix Berenskoetter and M.J. Williams) because it is less concerned with measuring existing power and more focused on analyzing a nation's potential for acquiring power in the long‐run. Ringman identifies three determinants of power accumulation: a state's ability to reflect or produce a vision of change, its capacity to create institutions that translate this vision into reality, and its proficiency in reconciling conflicts arising from these changes.         "
"3","India's state formation has shaped each dimension. During its long history, India was ruled by empires that accommodated diverse, indigenous societies by creating layered polities that provided substantial autonomy to local political orders. These multilayered empires, Chadda contends, laid the basis for contemporary India's decentralized, democratic ethnofederalism. They facilitated the transition from the Congress's single‐party dominance to coalitional rule in which regional parties play a crucial role, and they inclined India toward a foreign policy grounded in its self‐conception as a great country and designed to maximize its strategic autonomy by controlling relations with its neighbors."
"4","In her discussion of India's political economy, Chadda addresses the puzzle of its deteriorating governance but improved performance. She contends that the coalitional politics that arose after 1989 created a process whose flexible consensus building proved better at developing effective economic policies than the dominant Congress Party under Indira and Rajiv Gandhi. Furthermore, the weakness that outsiders associated with coalitional politics insulated India from the demands for neoliberal shock therapy in the 1990s that proved disastrous for many other countries."
"5","Although she provides an accounting of India's hard power, Chadda's analysis of India's soft power provides the most intriguing discussion of India's foreign policy. She notes that the end of Congress dominance and the onset of coalition politics eased India's transition from Nehruvian idealism to a pragmatic foreign policy appropriate for the post–Cold War world. At the same time, India's civilizational experience, its model of multiethnic democracy, and its diaspora of some 25 million provide important elements of soft power, if only Indian policymakers can harness them. Chadda suggests that India's distinctive process of state formation culminating in its multiethnic democracy provides an appealing alternative to the European model of state formation, and the success of India's democratic political economy presents an alternative to the East Asian for economic development."
"6","There is much to debate in Chadda's analysis. Many would contend that by promoting corruption and undermining the effectiveness of public policy, India's deteriorating governance limits its growth, increases inequality, and undermines its appeal as a model for other countries. Others will point out that advocacy of India's democratic ethnofederalism obscures the brutal coercion used to incorporate northeastern India and Kashmir. Any account of such complex matters is likely to raise controversy. Scholars who engage Chadda's ambitious, far‐reaching arguments will develop more sophisticated views through their efforts."
"7","                        "
"8","JOHN ECHEVERRI‐GENT"
"9","University of Virginia"
