"","x"
"1","Has the securitization of immigration, that is, the framing of immigration issues as security problems, enhanced the national security of the United States and European Union member states? Have counterterrorism measures aided in solving immigration problems? These are the two key questions that Ariane Chebel d'Appollonia addresses in her most‐recent and very comprehensive book. The author questions the main assumptions underlying political agendas in the United States and throughout Europe, analyzing implementation and evaluating the effectiveness of policies in terms of their stated objectives. She argues that the securitization of immigration has become detrimental to immigration and that counterterrorism policies are generating not less but more insecurity. Immigrants have become classified as potential terrorists and security threats. She argues that these new policies have disrupted the balance between the respect of civil liberties and human rights on the one hand and the need to control security threats on the other, thus creating an environment that fosters rather than stifles radicalism among immigrant and minority communities."
"2","Chebel d'Appollonia frames immigration as a security issue and examines the most‐common stereotypes and assertions about immigration and security, including that the newest groups of immigrants, such as Latin American immigrants in the United States and Middle Easterners in Europe, are different from previous waves of immigrants, in that they refuse to integrate and prefer to live in ethnic enclaves. Using historical analysis, the author shows that the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 did not initiate the scapegoating of certain migrant groups and the conflating of immigration with security issues, but that the current framing of immigration as a terrorist threat employs traditional rhetorical argumentation dating from the late nineteenth century. Thus, the author correctly emphasizes that in the current discourse in Europe and the United States, stating that particular migrant groups are unwilling or unable to integrate is based on historical amnesia. Indeed, the securitization of immigration policies began in the mid‐1980s. The attacks on September 11 did not constitute a dramatic departure from but rather an intensification of prior policies. However, the USA Patriot Act and a range of similar policies in Europe passed after September 11 collapsed immigration issues into criminality. In the United States, the former Immigration and Naturalization Service (now part of the Department of Homeland Security), also equated immigration concerns with terrorism."
"3","These structural changes have promoted the invasive actions that the author mentions. Describing how and why security policies have resulted in more, not less, insecurity, Chebel d'Appollonia details three interlocking processes that fuel the dynamics of policy failure. First, she shows that enhanced border controls increased the number of illegal immigrants and developed the smuggling networks in both the United States and Europe. Second, the broad and vague definition of terrorism and the proliferation of multilevel bureaucratic agencies escalated the perceived threat level. With her concept of the security/insecurity spiral, the author emphasizes that a perceived sense of insecurity leads to the implementation of more security measures: “The over‐generalized characterization of terrorism undermines governmental legitimacy because a continuing sense of insecurity is interpreted as a sign of incapacity, and thus fuels an increasing feeling of insecurity in an endless circle” (p. 140). For her, border controls, for example, create a misleading appearance of effectiveness, while the lack of a cohesive counterterrorist framework is coupled with institutional and technical deficiencies in both Europe and the United States. The new security‐based immigration regime has proven ineffective in achieving its prescribed goals and has even aggravated the problems it was supposed to solve: A security/insecurity cycle has been created that results in less security and less democracy because, among other things, the key paradox of the war on terror is that it has increased opportunities available to homegrown terrorists by imposing measures designed to address the issue of the “enemy inside,” often fueled by Islamophobia and anti‐Muslim hate crimes. The violation of immigrant rights as well as the restriction of civil rights with no more actual security goes hand in hand with the extension of executive powers in the United States and a dwindling of accountability and transparency in the processes of democratic governance in both regions. These developments have often been justified through undeviating emergency practices and the creation of a permanent “state of exception.” With this book, Ariane Chebel d'Appollonia has created a fine synopsis of the dilemmas surrounding immigration and security policies, accentuating the hazards that Western democracy has faced by putting the need for security ahead of rights."
"4","                        "
"5","BARBARA FRANZ"
"6","Rider University"
