"","x"
"1","The most visible consequences of the 2010 Republican wave, which installed conservative Republicans in governor's mansions across the country, was the decision by many of these executives to refuse federal funding for high‐speed rail and oppose the expansion of their Medicaid programs under the Affordable Care Act. As Sean Nicholson‐Crotty shows convincingly, these dynamics were neither unique to 2010 nor limited to the most high‐profile policies."
"2","Using a variety of data, Nicholson‐Crotty documents how the political calculations of state officials shape every aspect of state–federal interactions in the administration of intergovernmental aid. Partisanship affects state decisions to apply for grants, how the money is ultimately used, how federal funds are targeted to legislative districts, and whether governors subsequently claim credit for their grantsmanship. Nicholson‐Crotty looks in every metaphorical nook and cranny for evidence of strategic behavior and, in almost every case, finds it."
"3","Combining his encyclopedic knowledge of federal grant programs with a series of quantitative analyses, supplemented with interviews of political operatives, the author builds a theoretical model about how states interact with the national government in their pursuit of intergovernmental aid. The first part of the argument is that governors—not state legislators or bureaucrats—are the key actors whose decisions drive state policy toward federal dollars. Second, the author contends that governors use this influence to further the priorities of their core constituents and, at times of electoral vulnerability, to placate the median voters outside their base."
"4","The volume is a welcome, and indeed much‐needed, addition to the existing work on intergovernmental relations, which remains dominated by apolitical public finance accounts and by scholars who focus on grant funders rather than their recipients. Yet Nicholson‐Crotty shows that the recipients possess a great deal of agency when deciding whether to apply for federal dollars or how to spend the money once it has been awarded. This agency has been overlooked in existing research. As a result, our understanding of American federalism probably exaggerates the importance of the national government and understates the political autonomy of individual states."
"5","In short, the book is an outstanding scholarly account of fiscal federalism. At times, however, the evidence presented falls short of the interpretation provided by the author. For example, while the empirical evidence is quite convincing that the governor partisanship is important for shaping state grantsmanship, the author's claim that governors moderate their behavior at times of electoral uncertainty receives, at most, limited support. Part of the problem is that the measures used to capture electoral uncertainty—whether the governor is in an election year and the percentage of legislative seats held by each party—do not really capture the theoretical quantity of interest, which seems to be the expected closeness of the next gubernatorial election."
"6","Most problematic, however, is the author's suggestion that these dynamics are driven by the electoral connection. Throughout, Nicholson‐Crotty asserts that the partisan effects he documents arise out of the governors' efforts to please their core supporters in the electorate. This interpretation, however, is at odds with empirical evidence documenting a significant “democratic deficit” in the states caused by the adoption of more ideologically polarized and extreme policy than most constituents prefer (see, for example, Jeffrey R. Lax and Justin H. Phillips, “The Democratic Deficit in the States,” American Journal of Political Science 56 [January 2012]: 148–166) and the reality that state officials appear to be rarely disciplined by voters for being out of step with their constituents (see, for example, Steven Rogers, “Accountability in a Federal System” [PhD diss., Princeton University, 2013]). Nicholson‐Crotty's own findings, which show that voters reward governors for bringing home more federal grants, seem to challenge his contention that governors who forgo federal funds for programs supported by the other party do so as a result of electoral calculations rather than national partisan considerations or “a simple knee‐jerk rejection” (p. 133) of programs supported by the other party.         "
"7","In short, the book raises as many new questions as it answers and will likely set the research agenda for the study of American federalism for years to come."
"8","            "
"9","VLADIMIR KOGAN"
"10","The Ohio State University"
