"","x"
"1","In this book, Courtney I.P. Thomas explores the history of food safety regulation in the United States and discusses how a focus on food adulteration (food purity), rather than on microbial contamination (food safety), has permeated our food regulatory system since its inception. Through a historical analysis of food safety legislation and an examination of various food‐borne illness outbreaks, she builds the case that our food safety regulatory system needs to be overhauled. The focus on the difference between food purity and food safety and their influences on the development and growth of our food safety regulatory system makes this book an important contribution to the fields of regulatory politics and food policy."
"2","Through a discussion of legislation and court cases and an examination of the various roles of policymakers, regulators, producers, and consumers, Thomas provides a strong case for why food safety regulation should be viewed as inherently political. She begins with an examination of the country's first two pieces of food safety legislation, the 1906 Pure Food and Drug Act and the 1906 Federal Meat Inspection Act. Thomas argues that the 1906 statutes focused on the idea of food purity, which was defined in the statute as food that has been adulterated, to the detriment of food safety, which “emphasizes a science‐based perspective grounded in food chemistry and microbiology” (p. 2). This distinction has driven the development of our food safety regulatory system and has hindered the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) in pursuing pathogen‐based testing, issuing mandatory recalls, and other means of controlling for and minimizing the occurrence of pathogens in foods."
"3","Thomas also deftly analyzes how politics has influenced the development of market‐based regulatory mechanisms and command and control regulatory mechanisms in the U.S. food safety regulatory regime. She compares and contrasts their strengths and weaknesses and examines how political influences have led to the growth of private regulatory mechanisms, such as third‐party certification systems, at the expense of public regulatory mechanisms, such as the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points system. She concludes that a combination of both approaches, coupled with an emphasis on accountability mechanisms, is essential to a regulatory system's effectiveness. She argues that this has not happened in the United States and that market‐based regulatory approaches have gained dominance in food safety regulation because they advance “the corporate self‐interest of large food distributors and retailers” (p. 95)."
"4","Such a broadly focused book is not without its weaknesses. Although Thomas touches briefly on the issue of fragmented regulatory authority between the FDA and the USDA, she does not address how the often conflicting missions of an agency might affect regulatory outcomes. Other than providing a brief description of France's food regulatory regime, she does not spend much time discussing other countries' food safety regulatory regimes and what the United States might learn from them."
"5","The book's weaknesses, however, do not detract from the overall importance of the work. While we do not know yet how the food safety regulatory regime may or may not be transformed by passage of the 2010 Food Safety Modernization Act, for scholars and policymakers interested in understanding how this new law might be interpreted and implemented in light of the past, reading this sweeping historical work is necessary."
"6","                        "
"7","A. BRYCE HOFLUND"
"8","University of Nebraska at Omaha"
