"","x"
"1","This timely and heartfelt book addresses questions of significant interest to scholars and reformers concerning urban governance (who governs and how?) and social justice (how can and should government action foster genuinely equal opportunity and protection of the law for all?). Although Neil Kraus does not provide definitive answers to either question here, he does succeed in demonstrating plausibly that the explanatory power of popular pluralist‐ and elite‐based theories of urban governance is limited and that a kind of tyranny of the silent majority can prevent meaningful policy action to diminish race‐ and class‐based inequality."
"2","Kraus frames the book as testing the proposition that elite‐based models of urban governance decision making, regime theory in particular, are deficient in significant ways, partly because their empirical focus is biased toward land development policies rather than the more quotidian policies that shape the experience of urban life for most residents. Instead, he argues, governing choices either are driven by or are at the least consistent with majority public opinion, as measured by polling and citizen surveys, as well as elected officials' other forms of knowledge of constituent preferences. The other blind spot in elite theories, according to Kraus, is that they assume that elites' preferences are at odds with the preferences of the masses. In fact, Kraus argues, elites generally get their way because what they desire is in fact consistent with broad public opinion."
"3","The empirical tests here use a convenience sample of five cases in two cities: education, policing, and affordable housing policies in self‐consciously progressive, prosperous Minneapolis, Minnesota, and education and riverboat gambling policies in impoverished, majority‐minority Gary, Indiana. The heart of the book comprises five case study chapters, preceded by a framing chapter that provides some historical and spatial context for the two quite different cities examined here. In each case, Kraus shows that in spite of occasional responses to focusing events and the continuing efforts of social and political activists, both cities consistently failed to solve problems of class‐ and race‐based inequalities that arose or were exacerbated by demographic and economic transitions from the second half of the twentieth century into the early twenty‐first."
"4","The breadth of this book's treatment of the case studies should make it a useful supplement for research and teaching about Minneapolis, Gary, and their respective metropolitan areas. Kraus provides a wealth of historical and scholarly context for the cases. The case chapters also provide useful primers on their respective policy areas more broadly, summarizing key information about the nature of the policy problems, their causes and effects, and the available evidence about potential solutions. That same breadth also makes the book less satisfying in other ways. It is neither a fully thoroughgoing, theoretically driven work of urban political analysis nor an all‐out polemic against complacency in the face of injustice. In general, the case chapters do not focus as directly or clearly on specifically testing Kraus's propositions about majoritarian rule as they might, so it is difficult to judge how well the author's central thesis is supported by the facts of the cases. In particular, the failure to develop a fuller comparative analysis of education policies in the Gary and Minneapolis metropolitan areas seems like a major missed opportunity here."
"5","Still, there is a great deal to be heard and heeded in this book. Kraus writes compellingly, with heartfelt outrage, of apparently widespread acceptance—or acquiescence, or resignedly passive acceptance—of real injustice in and around both cities. That this injustice is perpetuated in large part by the policies or indifference of the surrounding state and suburban governments not directly controllable by those cities does not make it any less shocking, as Kraus makes clear."
"6","                        "
"7","JONATHAN B. JUSTICE"
"8","University of Delaware"
