"","x"
"1","Radio Free Europe, broadcasting to five East European countries, became a household word in the United States during the Cold War. It was the major activity of the Free Europe Committee (FEC), a public‐private partnership between the Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department, and influential private citizens. Complementing radio broadcasts, the FEC also targeted Eastern Europe with a printed word program. In its first phase, leaflets and mini‐newspapers were dispatched with fanfare by balloon. In its second phase, Western books and East European underground literature published in the West were sent without publicity to Eastern Europe by postal mail and by travelers."
"2","Former FEC official John P.C. Matthews was the first author to publicize the “book program” in his 2003 article, “The West's Secret Marshall Plan for the Mind.” Alfred Reisch oversaw the Hungarian project until 1974. His book (completed just before his death in 2013) provides an encyclopedic, scholarly account of the origins, operations, and impact of the program. Conceived by FEC official Samuel S. Walker as an instrument to encourage “transformation of the communist system by an evolutionary process” (p. 16), the “book program” was developed and managed almost single‐handedly by George Minden, a British‐Romanian who focused the program on East European elites to combat their ideological isolation, “to keep [them] oriented toward the West, independent‐minded, and friendly to America” (p. 52). Reisch draws on the Hoover Institution Archives (especially Minden's detailed project reports), interviews and correspondence with participants, and personal experience to provide a comprehensive, indeed forensic analysis of the program for the years 1956–1973. Successive chapters cover in great detail the organization of the project and its international coalition of publishers and book distributors, mailing of books to Eastern Europe, distribution of books by travelers, acknowledgment letters from East European recipients, and efforts by communist regime censors to ban unapproved literature. Lacking documentation of the program in its later years, Reisch can only sketch in a final chapter the continuation of the project (now including the USSR) outside the FEC orbit."
"3","The Iron Curtain that walled off Central and Eastern Europe was porous. Western radio broadcasts reached many tens of millions of East European listeners in spite of radio jamming. Reisch estimates that some ten million Western books and other publications reached East Europeans in spite of postal and customs censorship and that East Europeans responded with some million letters requesting or acknowledging books. This was East–West “bridge building” at its best."
"4","Reisch's pioneering study demonstrates that the “book program” was an important part of the American Cold War effort to counter Soviet influence, help East Europeans remain in touch with the West, and keep alive hope of freedom. Although the program was funded covertly from the U.S. intelligence budget through the FEC until 1971, strategic direction came not from Washington but from FEC officials Walker and Minden. They organized and managed a decentralized international consortium of publishers, individuals, and Western governments who saw the value of a “Marshall Plan for the mind,” were eager to participate on the condition that the program be conducted in the shadows, and never publicized their activities. Nor was the program penetrated by Soviet bloc intelligence services. Now, over 20 years after its end, Alfred Reisch has superbly analyzed and documented the “book program” that was one of the most successful and cost‐effective instruments of American foreign policy during the Cold War."
"5","                        "
"6","A. ROSS JOHNSON"
"7","The Wilson Center"
