"","x"
"1","For decades, those books that have dealt with the evolution of the relationship between Washington and Tehran in the 1970s, when the alliance reached its zenith before crumbling under the impact of the Iranian Revolution, have focused either on alleged American responsibility for the authoritarian drift of the shah's regime or on the degree to which the adoption of a different policy by Washington could have altered the course of events in 1979. Roham Alvandi's book marks a strong departure from this trend. His innovative volume is not concerned with assessing culpability; its intent is to provide an original interpretation of a partnership—that between Richard M. Nixon, Henry Kissinger, and Mohammad Reza Pahlavi—that “remains, to this day, the high‐water mark of the United States' relationship with Iran” (p. 6). The result is a solid and well‐documented account of the alliance that “challenges the static view of the shah's relationship with the United States” (p. 179) and significantly enriches our understanding of Iran as an international actor."
"2","Through the analysis of three key historical episodes, Alvandi confronts the view of Iran as “a simple Cold War battleground” (p. 179), convincingly demonstrates the country's evolution from client to partner of the United States during the Cold War, and emphasizes the effectiveness of the shah's influence in shaping American foreign policy. His compelling narrative guides the reader through the meanderings of the American policymaking process to address, first, the acknowledgment of Iranian primacy in the Persian Gulf during the Nixon administration and, then, the emergence of the first strains in the alliance under the presidency of Gerald Ford. The value of the book, though, is not limited to the comprehensive account that Alvandi offers of America's evolving approach to Iran. A further and, to a certain extent, even greater merit of the book is that it introduces us to a new image of Iran and of its ruler, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the pragmatic master of Tehran's diplomacy and indispensable partner in Washington's fight against Moscow and its allies in the region."
"3","What results is an account of relations in which the unparalleled, albeit temporary, success of the U.S.–Iranian partnership ultimately sat at the convergence of national agendas and the work of figures who, through their long‐standing friendships, informal channels of communication, and pursuit of common interests, crucially contributed to the reinforcement of the alliance. This, of course, is no novelty in the history of foreign relations, but reminding us of the significance of the personal side of diplomacy is among the qualities of this work. The consequences of such a shift in perspective are even more relevant on the international level. Alvandi's depiction of the role played by the shah in the formulation of Washington's foreign policy not only reinforces the argument about Iran's transformation into a powerful and autonomous actor; it also challenges the view of the Cold War as a competition between blocs based on the undisputed primacy of Washington and Moscow in crafting policies, with local proxies, especially in the Third World, merely executing directions commanded by the superpowers."
"4","Alvandi's analysis of the Iranian role in U.S. involvement in the Kurdish conflict offers the best case in point in this regard. The shah's ability to draw Washington into a peripheral war, to the detriment of American détente with Moscow and in contrast with what was envisaged by the Nixon Doctrine, exemplifies the level of influence the shah enjoyed in American policymaking. In this element, and in the resulting reassessment of the relations between centre and periphery during the Cold War, lies the greatest value and probably the most enduring impact of this book."
"5","                        "
"6","CLAUDIA CASTIGLIONI"
"7","University of Florence"
