"","x"
"1","When it comes to congressional campaign funding, a group of less than 500 individuals donates more money to House campaigns than the entertainment or banking industries. Perhaps unexpectedly, this small special interest group entirely comprises incumbent members of the House of Representatives. Redistributed member funds, or campaign funds raised by representatives and transferred to peers or to party fundraising organizations, constitute more than 10 percent of expenditures in House races. The rising importance of member giving to the study of elections demands an updating of prevailing theories of American political parties."
"2","In the nearly 25 years since Clyde Wilcox first addressed member giving in “Share the Wealth,” a consensus has emerged among scholars and journalists that legislators support their party and peers primarily out of self‐interested ambition. Recent books by Marion Currinder and Damon Cann have argued convincingly that members distribute funds to build support within their caucus for election to party leadership posts or appointment to committee chairmanships."
"3","Eric Heberlig and Bruce Larson take on the more‐ambitious task of fitting member giving into broader theories of party power and organization. Cox and McCubbins' cartel model, in which parties act primarily to control the policy agenda, has little to say about parties' roles as electoral organizations. Heberlig and Larson's contribution is to advance an electoral agenda and role for parties. The control of institutional rewards in the House, such as committee posts, has created an electorally powerful party organization in which parties expropriate campaign funds from members in order to achieve majority status. Heberlig and Larson eliminate the division between party as organization and party in government, offering a much stronger electoral role for parties than traditionally has been suggested."
"4","Member giving unites selfish personal interests of congressmen and the collective interests of the party. Though any representative is better off being in the majority (since legislation is more likely to match the representative's preferences), no legislator would single‐handedly risk losing re‐election to help struggling peers. The party compensates members for this risk, rewarding them with appointments to desirable committees or party leadership posts. Ambitious representatives may pursue selfish ends, but their behavior is channeled toward the collective good of majority control, with the byproduct of electorally powerful political parties."
"5","How has the added burden of party fundraising impacted legislators? The additional time and staff necessary to raise funds may lead legislators to rely on well‐funded donors or even retire from Congress if fundraising demands are too onerous. In fact, Heberlig and Larson do find that strong party fundraisers turn increasingly to large individual donors and business political action committees (PACs) to fund party giving. However, while increased fundraising demands surely frustrate and annoy legislators, Heberlig and Larson find that Representatives have not retired at a greater rate because of such demands, and that senior Representatives have proven able to adapt to the new fundraising paradigm."
"6","Heberlig and Larson provide a necessary and stimulating revision of party theory, presenting parties as fundraising machines able to deliver large sums of money from incumbents to aspiring candidates. While parties were the primary beneficiaries of campaign finance law before 2010, the post‐Citizens United campaign finance landscape is far less clear. SuperPACs and corporations are now afforded unlimited and even anonymous fundraising and spending opportunities. While Congressional Campaign Committees and Party National Committees unified and centralized electoral efforts around the collective goal of majority status in the 1990s and 2000s, SuperPAC and business spending may be more ideological and policy‐focused rather than strictly partisan. Will parties continue to dominate the campaign finances of members? Reading Eric Heberlig and Bruce Larson's new book, it is hard to count them out."
"7","                        "
"8","ADAM ZELIZER"
"9","Columbia University"
