"","x"
"1","Asif Efrat's book offers a rigorous assessment of the most‐unresolved puzzles surrounding the illicit trade of goods and people. Even though the book addresses complex questions, it is written in a clear prose and straightforward style. It is a must‐read and an essential guide for scholars and policymakers working on illegal trade, an area in which secrecy and clandestine workings greatly complicate analysis. This book elucidates it, explaining first the extent of variation in government preferences on international regulation as a principal dependent variable that is then complemented by a second one on strength of international regulation."
"2","Two central research questions guide this theoretical empirical work: the first is why it is so contentious to find commonly–agreed‐upon multilateral cooperation measures to combat illicit trade and why some governments oppose and some vehemently espouse them. The second is under what conditions cooperation occurs. The road to cooperation is long and arduous, as Efrat recognizes, and therefore, his analysis is premised upon a process that encompasses five stages: placing an issue on the international agenda; negotiations toward the adoption of a regulatory agreement to suppress a certain trade; commitment to what was agreed upon; compliance; and effectiveness."
"3","Efrat's book rests on a sound theoretical foundation. His analysis centers on the vast literature that explains cooperation among states. This literature has devoted scant attention to the examination of the area of illicit trade, and his treatise fills this lacuna, offering a forthright foundational explanation that relies on the absence of shared interest among states as a reason for the difficulty in establishing cooperation. Essentially here for Efrat's main argument: it is officialdom that is the main culprit in hindering efforts to curb illegal trade. not the transnational criminal networks per se. In sum, his theoretical framework is based upon illicit trade's primary and secondary negative externalities; that is, negative consequences on own states' territories and on others as mechanisms for change or continuation.         "
"4","It is hard to fault Efrat's thesis. However, if one point can be singled out, it is that for him, states disagree on the scope and attractiveness of curbing illicit trade, and he rightly and originally accounts for the variation in preferences toward international regulation and ultimately the desirability of cooperation. However, in some of the areas he examines, governments contend on what to do about illegal trade to avoid taking a more in‐depth look for change at legal trade, owing to their unwillingness to have more restrictions on how this side of the coin operates. In the case of the 2001 Program of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons, for instance, states paid lip service to legal trade, effectively avoiding taking regulatory action this side of trade until more recently, with the 2013 Arms Trade Treaty."
"5","The theoretical framework is deepened by an extraordinarily rich empirical exploration of three central cases using qualitative and quantitative methods: small arms (governing guns), antiquities (preventing plunder), and human trafficking (protecting persons), and two subsidiary cases to further develop his argument: opposing opium and combating counterfeits. Motivating Efrat's choices were the considerable variation of states' preferences in these cases, policy relevance (and detrimental effects on human welfare), and novelty of the research."
"6","Finally, a point of criticism is the book's title. Efrat's treatise is about much more than what the title reflects. Rather, Efrat succeeded in explaining the intricate ways and conditions for the achievement of international cooperation against illicit trade in some of the hardest ungoverned or initially scantly governed areas. Powerfully, the book concludes that an array of inabilities and complicit behaviors within government structures means that states are failing in the fight against illegal trade, especially vis‐à‐vis increased social and media globalized networks of communication that give a freer rein to transnational criminal networks. Principally, the essence of Efrat's thesis is about the absence of shared interest from states in accomplishing cooperation to eliminate the scourge arising from illicit trade."
"7","                        "
"8","DENISE GARCIA"
"9","Northeastern University"
