"","x"
"1","Why do individuals contribute to political campaigns? The question bears asking since, in spite of the considerable attention paid to organized interests and their political action committees (PACs), individual contributions make up the largest share of federal campaign receipts. In particular, Bertram N. Johnson's new book asks why so many individuals give in amounts too small for them to expect any material return. Johnson outlines a typology of potential incentives for giving that includes material, solidary, purposive, and expressive incentives. Though political scientists have written extensively about material and solidary reasons for giving, the author argues that purposive and expressive incentives have been overlooked. Purposive incentives originate from the intrinsic satisfaction of contributing to promote a desired social or political outcome; expressive incentives are based on the utility gained from articulating particular values. The author generates a number of hypotheses based on these incentives including, in the case of purposive incentives, that individuals with strong political preferences will be more likely to contribute."
"2","Before testing his hypotheses directly, Johnson devotes a chapter to the interesting history of individual political donors in American politics. A subsequent chapter uses interviews with political fundraisers in order to understand how contemporary campaigns raise money. Most fundraisers report that technological change has not fundamentally changed the process of raising money over the past decade. Campaigns still focus on a candidate's social and professional network to raise large individual contributions and on interest groups for PAC money. Though technology may bring down the costs of raising small donations, fundraisers tend to dismiss small donations as not worth their time. The exceptions to this accepted wisdom are candidates with extreme views who can use the Internet successfully to raise small donations from dedicated partisans."
"3","The meat of Johnson's analysis tests the theory of purposive incentives using measures of ideological extremism. Individuals who have extreme ideology should be more likely to make contributions in order to promote their preferred political outcomes. Likewise, extreme candidates should be the recipients of more individual and small donations, since they are most committed to a clear political end. Using donation data from the Federal Election Commission and measures of legislator ideology, Johnson finds that legislator extremism is a strong predictor of receiving individual donations and small donations. On the donor side, an analysis of data from the American National Election Survey (ANES) reveals that extreme individual ideology increases the probability of making a donation. In addition, this effect has increased markedly since the early 2000s. Johnson's empirical tests of his hypotheses related to expressive incentives are less convincing, due in part to the questions available in the ANES."
"4","Johnson makes a strong case that extreme candidates rely more on individual donors and small donations and that extreme individuals are more likely to make donations. Based on these findings, the author expresses skepticism of reforms that would further limit the size of campaign contributions or match small donations, fearing that such changes would mainly benefit extreme candidates. Surprisingly, Johnson engages very little with the issue of increasing political polarization, a topic that seems to follow directly from the subject matter. Students of politics would like to know if ideologically extreme donors are encouraging more‐extreme candidates to run or if they are following the candidates' lead. In all, the reader is left with important insights about who is more likely to give and receive individual contributions, but with a limited sense of how these relationships might influence the political system more broadly."
"5","                        "
"6","MICHAEL SCHWAM‐BAIRD"
"7","Columbia University"
