"","x"
"1","Why do some foreign policy hawks evolve into doves? This is the central question motivating Yael S. Aronoff's examination of six Israeli prime ministers. While scholars have spent considerable energy focusing on why leaders opt for conflict, we know less about why hard‐liners undergo a transformation that leads them to pursue negotiations in good faith. To address this question, Aronoff constructs a typology of decision making that combines relevant aspects of a leader's political ideology with cognitive traits. The result is a detailed framework that effectively explains why Ehud Barak, Yitzhak Rabin, and Shimon Peres evolved from security hawks into forceful advocates for peace, while Yitzhak Shamir, Benjamin Netanyahu, and Ariel Sharon remained ardently against negations throughout their political careers."
"2","The analysis presents a compelling set of political biographies focusing on foreign policy deliberations. Readers get an insider's look into how these leaders thought about their decisions as well as a detailed historical account of the important shifts in Israeli policy over the decades. The research is impressively sourced. Unlike some psychological analyses that attempt to construct leadership profiles from afar, Aronoff builds her analysis on interviews with a broad array of senior policy advisers and cabinet officials conducted over a 15‐year period."
"3","One lingering concern when reading cases is that the analytical framework is fitted around the historical facts. Netanyahu's recent reelection provides a unique opportunity to evaluate the argument against new data. The predictions prove to be remarkably accurate.” Despite many who view him simply as an ideologue, Aronoff depicts Netanyahu as ideologically consistent but also as one who is “willing to make tactical compromises in order to secure his political future” (p. 44) and lacking in “emotional intelligence” (p. xii). Indeed, Netanyahu's startling reversals in his support for a two‐state solution in the desperate days before the 2015 election is exactly the kind of political maneuvering that Aronoff's analysis would predict, while his lack of emotional intelligence would make it difficult for him to foresee the political backlash that inevitably followed."
"4","While the analysis makes a compelling case that personality traits matter in foreign policy outcomes, the argument is confronted by the fact that leaders in the Labor Party had more room to evolve than their Likud counterparts. For example, Aronoff concludes that “there have been times when, even though Netanyahu was willing to make more significant concessions for peace, his party would constraint him” (p. 76). By contrast, we are told that “Labor ideology made Peres's shift to a more dovish position possible” (p. xv). Indeed, all of the examples of leaders who converted from hawks to doves led Labor coalitions, while those who remained hawks throughout were the conservatives in Likud."
"5","Which matters more, individuals or the parties they inhabit? Aronoff provides compelling evidence that shifts in the preferences of leaders have acted as an independent force shaping the contours of Israel's foreign policy. An additional conclusion one can draw from this research is that it would take an extraordinarily committed leader to overcome the constraints imposed by ideology. The newly assembled Netanyahu government is therefore unlikely to provide impetus for a renewed and meaningful commitment to peace negotiations. The political constraints in Likud make a dovish turn difficult, and Netanyahu appears to be a leader who is willing to compromise for political gain but unlikely to deliberately lead against his party's wishes."
"6","                        "
"7","JEFFREY D. BEREJIKIAN"
"8","University of Georgia"
