"","x"
"1","How do American citizens deal with an often frightening world where terrorism may come ashore again at any moment? Does the threat of terrorism bind Americans together more tightly or does threat expose underlying weaknesses in the American community? In a tour of post‐September 11 American public opinion, Clem Brooks and Jeff Manza depict an American public willing to forego the rights and liberties of citizens, particularly groups traditionally considered outsiders. This dark side of public opinion is deeply rooted in American history, as the authors show in a chapter outlining key moments of both expansion and retrenchment of rights. What Brooks and Manza demonstrate through a series of survey experiments is that this retrenchment of rights may be enduring when the targets of surveillance and detention are seen as non‐citizens, Middle‐Easterners, or Muslims. Survey respondents feel more coolly toward these groups than other groups like U.S. citizens, whites, blacks, and Christians. Respondents are also more supportive of policies like using military commissions rather than civilian courts to try accused terrorists when told that the accused are foreign nationals compared to citizens. Democracies demand equal protection under the law, but this book shows that when politics is threatening, Americans willingly sacrifice these protections for others they view as unlike themselves."
"2","Brooks and Manza make their case for this discomfiting picture of the American public using three original nationally representative surveys from 2007, 2009, and 2010. Over the three surveys, there are ten measures of counterterrorism policy attitudes, ranging from support for National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance and ethnic profiling at airports, to support for more‐severe rights restrictions like waterboarding and torture. While there is a relatively high level of public acceptance of all of these policies, support for NSA surveillance is the most popular, at almost 80percent support, with torture the least supported at 30 percent."
"3","Through utilizing subtle question wording variations in the survey experiments, Brooks and Manza show that opinion is also responsive to changing levels of threat. Survey respondents considering the threat of future terrorism become more supportive of rights limitations than those not considering future terrorism, and this hypothetical terrorism has more impact on rights opinions than actual events like failed terrorism attempts. This type of asymmetry is also present in their policy feedback experiments, found in chapter 6, where they present some respondents with information about actual changes in public policy. like Barack Obama's executive order to cease coercive interrogation techniques. In the policy feedback experiments, telling respondents about policy changes more successfully moved opinion toward more‐conservative counterterrorism policy than toward relaxing terrorism policies. One surprising finding is how little partisanship, usually a strong determinant of public opinion, appears to matter to counterterrorism opinions. While the authors explain the asymmetric results in the policy feedback chapter as public reticence to relinquish policies that may keep them safe, it is also likely that Republican respondents, who are more supportive of strong national security generally, were unlikely to respond to policy changes executed by a Democratic president and are driving the asymmetrical results."
"4","Even in a rather dark portrait of the American public, there are a few pieces of hopeful news. Support for the most democratically and morally questionable policies like waterboarding and torture never reached a majority, and attitudes on those issues were not affected by whether the potential target of torture was Muslim. In addition, education seems to blunt the result of threat and makes people less willing to take rights from others. These findings suggest that even in times of threat, diverse communities can find ways through education to protect the polity without completely sacrificing the rights of community members."
"5","                        "
"6","SHANA KUSHNER GADARIAN"
"7","Syracuse University"
