"","x"
"1","Zalmay Khalilzad had superb vantage points from which to witness some of the more consequential episodes in U.S. foreign and security policy over the past three decades. He was ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations and held senior posts in the Defense Department and White House in both Bush administrations. He also had the unusual—for someone attaining these positions—background of being born and raised in Afghanistan, where as a boy he rode to elementary school on horseback. Studying under Albert Wohlstetter at the University of Chicago was Khalilzad's entrée into circles that would dominate much of national security policymaking in Republican administrations. Khalilzad became thoroughly Americanized long ago, but his origins show through in some of his perspectives toward more recent problems."
"2","This book is most useful as a narrative that supplements accounts in other memoirs and in the first drafts of history written by journalists. Khalilzad helped make policy as well as witnessed it, but at levels below the top and as someone who had to make things happen on the ground abroad and not just make pronouncements in Washington. Some of his account fills in gaps in the stories told by others. Some of it reminds us of things that have been forgotten or were never well learned in the first place, such as that George W. Bush was just as careful in his rhetoric as Barack Obama in not conflating Islam with extremism (p. 109). And some of it confirms the more discreditable aspects of U.S. policy—most conspicuously, the lack of planning for the aftermath of the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003. Having worked after the invasion as an envoy to the Iraqi opposition, Khalilzad has many stories to tell about the consequences of that lapse. He writes that when he later returned to Baghdad as ambassador, “Part of my challenge was to undo the consequences of poorly conceived U.S. policies” (p. 229)."
"3","The book is devoted more to telling stories than to pressing a particular point of view or defending any one set of policymakers. Khalilzad does make sensible points about how some policies, especially those of the younger Bush's administration, bumped up against reality, as in his observation that the administration's resistance to discussing Afghan affairs with the Iranians was a lost opportunity and only made Iran less helpful. He makes some other sound points in the realist tradition, although he sometimes appears to go in a different direction. He writes favorably, for example, about promoting a balance of power in key regions but also speaks of the United States “managing” regional security (p. 309), which suggests a different approach. Khalilzad places much—perhaps too much—confidence in what Western‐educated elites can do for troubled lands. This is apparent in what he says about his native Afghanistan, specifically pointing to current president Ashraf Ghani, whom Khalilzad first knew as a fellow exchange student coming to the United States in the 1960s."
"4","This readable and informative memoir does not attempt to tackle some fundamental questions of where U.S. interests lie. Khalilzad does not specifically address, for example, the stakes the United States does or does not have in the political coloration of Afghanistan. Nor does the scope of the book include most of the domestic U.S. political context; neoconservatism, for example, is never discussed directly—only indirectly in terms of the positions of government departments over which neocons came to exert control."
"5","            "
"6","PAUL R. PILLAR"
"7","Georgetown University"
