"","x"
"1","In American Democracy (1835), Alexis de Tocqueville indicates that American democracy experiences difficulties in the conduct of foreign policy, which often requires confidentiality, flexibility, and patience. Diplomatic negotiations in the shadow of democratic control and public purviews pose paramount challenges for democratic leaders and policymakers. Confidential negotiation channels, therefore, have been used to guard against shifting domestic influences and damaging information leaks in U.S. foreign policy.         "
"2","Richard A. Moss's book on President Richard Nixon's back‐channel diplomacy successfully addresses this perennial issue. Although Nixon's foreign policy has been studied at great length, his back‐channel diplomacy is largely untouched in previous literature. Moss conducts comprehensive research on declassified document collections in the Nixon administration, including the Nixon tapes and Henry Kissinger's telephone conversations. With a focus on the confidential meetings between National Security Adviser Kissinger and Soviet ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynin, his work demonstrates that Nixon's back‐channel diplomacy worked effectively for reducing tensions between the two superpowers. "
"3","In the book, Moss traces the evolution of back channels along with major Cold War events during Nixon's presidency. The resolution of the Cienfuegos crisis “boosted the back channels and marked a turning point for the Nixon administration's handling of U.S.‐Soviet relations” (p. 59). Since then, Nixon actively used the back channels to break the impasse over the Strategic Arms Limitations Talks, deescalate tensions over the Quadripartite Agreement on Berlin, exchange conflicting views over the U.S.‐China rapprochement, and apply pressure on the Soviets to lever the deadlocked negotiations in Paris between the United States and North Vietnam during the Vietnam War. Moss explicates how Nixon's back‐channel diplomacy successfully shaped the détente that culminated in the historic Moscow summit in 1972."
"4","Despite the overall effectiveness of Nixon's back‐channel diplomacy, Moss also mentions to its major drawbacks. The first is inherent frictions resulting from the consistent use of secret channels outside of institutional frameworks. Nixon's confidential diplomacy came at the expense of bypassing the existing bureaucratic apparatus and, most famously, Secretary of State William P. Rogers. Moss concludes that the “coordination of back channels with official channels may have struck a better balance between maintaining secrecy and effectiveness, as opposed to the wholesale exclusion of the traditional foreign policy apparatus” (p. 306). The second drawback is the failure to transform the confidential diplomatic channels from Kissinger's personal act into a sustainable institution. As a consequence, Nixon's downfall in later years inevitably undermined the legitimacy of his diplomatic achievements. Back channels helped ease U.S.‐Soviet tensions for a time but failed to provide a solid foundation for long‐lasting détente."
"5","Moss's in‐depth historical study offers rich insights for enduring debates over the effectiveness of private diplomatic communication in international relations literature; while private communication that occurs out of general view is often considered as cheap talks, some scholarship has indicated that privately conveyed messages are not always cheap but could carry credible signals. Nixon's confidential diplomacy suggests how private communications function as an effective instrument for crisis management."
"6","In this regard, Moss's work naturally invites theoretical puzzles that include under what conditions back channels are employed as a communication tool, under what conditions and in what issue areas back‐channel diplomacy works effectively, and how democratic institutions and audiences influence back‐channel diplomacy in an interactive way. Moss's study does not fully develop explicit theoretical frameworks to answer them, but those puzzles may stimulate further discussions in political science and diplomatic history."
"7","Those remaining issues in the book indicate a potential for future research rather than its limitations. Moss's book must be widely read by diplomatic historians, international relations scholars, and practitioners. It would certainly provide abundant historical findings and implications for foreign affairs under a democratic government."
"8","                        "
"9","AZUSA KATAGIRI"
"10","Harvard University"
