"","x"
"1","Timothy Stewart‐Winter has written an important political history of the growth of the lesbian and gay rights movement in Chicago, one that fills a notable gap in a literature that has focused primarily on the movements in New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Washington, DC. Beyond this geographic gap, Stewart‐Winter also argues against the common pre/post‐Stonewall narrative that pervades much of the development literature on the movement. As he states, the “book instead emphasizes the continuities between the 1960s and 1970s, as activists from both generations focused on challenging policy brutality, entrapment, and street harassment, as well as raids on gay bars” (p. 5). This was a more practical politics that was born of the power of the Richard Daley machine and its obsession with removing the city of “deviates” as a way to please the working‐class white Daley base. Indeed, the author notes that the Stonewall riots “barely registered” (p. 86) with Chicago activists. This history contributes to the rethinking of the role of Stonewall and more radical politics in the early 1970s."
"2","Another important contribution of the book is the integration of lesbian and gay activism with African American activism in the city—the two movements allied in opposition to the Daley machine and its (and law enforcement's) hostility toward both groups. Indeed, the early chapters of the book are a model of intersectional analysis. The best parts of the book are the extended discussions of the interplay between lesbian and gay rights advocates and Mayor Harold Washington, Chicago's first African American mayor, who saw lesbians and gays in the city as an important part of his electoral coalition. Stewart‐Winter also effectively examines the support for lesbian and gay rights from many quarters of the African American community, even religious leaders, while highlighting the almost uniform opposition from the Catholic Church and the white machine politicians who opposed rights for lesbians and gay men."
"3","The book effectively chronicles the growth of the mostly gay male enclave of Boystown and the creation of lesbian and gay organizations and media, as well as divisions and, ultimately, more unity between lesbians and gay men in the city. The book provides an extensive and illuminating discussion of the enactment of a gay rights ordinance in the late 1980s and how this reflected the rising clout of the lesbian and gay voting bloc. The chapter on the politics of the AIDS crisis is an important contribution to the history of AIDS politics and policy."
"4","In the end, the book is about machine politics more than grassroots activism. Most of the focus in on elected officials and candidates for office. Many important city activists are merely mentioned in passing as activists without exploring the nature and substance of their activism. A separate chapter on these activists would have been a useful and important addition. The book also departs from its careful historical analysis to a much thinner analysis at the end, in which the narrative becomes more of a polemic about neoliberal development policies and the connections of some gay male business and political leaders to these policies. Stewart‐Winter shows particular distaste for a late 1990s city‐sponsored streetscape project in Boystown that “affirmed gay identity, inclusion, and legitimacy, and it also specialized it in a way that linked gayness and whiteness powerfully and permanently” (p. 221)."
"5","Despite these critiques, the book is an important work on the rise of lesbian and gay politics and provides a fuller picture of how this politics developed in ways different from the trajectories of other urban areas that tend to dominate the historiography."
"6","                        "
"7","JASON PIERCESON"
"8","University of Illinois Springfield"
