"","x"
"1","Amy Stone takes a detailed look at the history of gay civil rights direct democracy measures in the United States. Based largely on archival research and interviews with activists, this is very likely the most‐exhaustive history of gay rights in ballot contests yet published. Stone begins with the infamous Anita Bryant campaign in Florida and works her way up through the same‐sex marriage ban ballot battles of the 2000s, ending her analysis in 2009. Along the way, she focuses our attention on what ballot measures have meant to the gay and lesbian movement and its organizations, the campaign lessons learned, and the tactical and strategic choices faced by activists on both sides of the issue."
"2","The central thesis is grounded largely in sociology and posits that although many of the gay rights ballot measures have resulted in defeats for the lesbian/gay/bisexual/transgender (LGBT) community, they have often had the side effect of mobilizing the LGBT community at the local and state level and have sometimes created enduring LGBT groups that have gone on to effectively represent the LGBT community in the policy process. Although the thesis is not a new one in the gay rights literature, Stone's account examines this phenomenon across a wide range of ballot contests around the United States. Her evidence supports the thesis as well as the previously documented argument that ballot measures forced the LGBT movement to think locally rather than nationally. And indeed, it is at the subnational level that the movement has achieved its greatest successes."
"3","Chapter 1 provides a chronological view of the history of LGBT‐related ballot measures, even documenting the failed attempts by the religious right to place measures on the ballot. The chapter does an especially good job of documenting the tactical innovations adopted by the religious right over time. Chapters 2 through 5 document in a largely chronological fashion how the LGBT movement responded to each wave of ballot measures, growing the LGBT movement and developing some effective campaign methods, even as some tactics, such as the discussion of transgender rights, were often excluded. Chapter 6 and the brief conclusion also highlight some of the ways in which the movement learned to decrease divisions over racial, gender, and transgender issues."
"4","I was disappointed that Stone makes limited use of the detailed empirical work on gay civil rights at the state and local level, even studies that focus exclusively on gay rights in direct democracy. And in her focus on how ballot measures have helped to mobilize the LGBT community, she appears to downplay the overall costs of these battles to the movement; consider what the movement might look like if it had not had to devote so much time and resources to fighting against measures to restrict rights and instead could have pursued a change agenda of expanding rights protections."
"5","That said, the religious right backlash against some of the early gains of the LGBT movement may have backfired in some regards. For example, the push to constitutionally ban same‐sex marriage through referenda in the 2000s appears to have made civil unions policy a “moderate” rather than a radical policy choice (which it had been as late as 2003). And although all of the same‐sex marriage bans in the first decade of the 2000s passed, the campaigns against the measures allowed the LGBT community, really for the first time, to educate the public about the issues that same‐sex couples and families face. For example, much of the public had been unaware of hospital visitation rights, adoption issues, and the like, faced by same‐sex partners. This educative process appears to be partly responsible for the dramatic increase in support for same‐sex marriage since 2006 in national polls. If this perspective on the legacy of same‐sex marriage bans is correct, it, too, would support Stone's primary thesis."
"6","                        "
"7","DONALD P. HAIDER‐MARKEL"
"8","University of Kansas"
