"","x"
"1","Nancy Bermeo and Jonas Pontusson tackle an important part of the Great Recession that has escaped scholarly attention from political scientists: government responses to the crisis, and the drivers of these responses. Coping with Crisis is comparative in scope, with cross‐national comparisons across the advanced industrial economies and historical comparisons between present and prior bouts of economic crisis. The chapters are empirically rich and informative, and draw closely on established theoretical literatures in comparative and international political economy. It is a fine volume that deserves to be widely read by scholars, policymakers, and anyone interested in understanding the Great Recession.         "
"2","Bermeo and Pontusson deserve special praise for their introductory chapter, and whatever the strengths of the individual chapters, it is this chapter that makes the volume a coherent whole. Instead of a summary of arguments, Bermeo and Pontusson provide an overview of the volume's implications for existing scholarly research, both in the comparative political economy of advanced industrial societies and in the modern international political economy. Their points are three. First, while the Great Recession is a global crisis in a highly integrated global economy, policy responses were largely determined by domestic political factors within individual countries. Broad similarities across the advanced economies, such as they can be found, should be attributed to common experiences (two that they name are neoliberalism and deindustrialization) rather than efficacious, coordinated, or even deliberate international efforts."
"3","Second, the menu of policy options facing national governments appears to have been far more constrained in the Great Recession than in previous crises. Previously, national governments in advanced economies resorted to protectionist measures and wide‐ranging industrial policy to a far greater extent than they have during the Great Recession—with the notable exception of the financial industry, which has benefited from an enormous amount of government intervention. The authors give various reasons for the more‐constrained policy menu, including broad national agreement about the basic terms of national political economies in the Nordic countries, financial constraints tied to the Euro that left no option aside from internal devaluation in the GIIPS (Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain), and some ascendancy of consensus ideas about the proper scope of government intervention."
"4","Third, the editors highlight several themes that have escaped recent work on the political economy of the advanced capitalist economies. One new theme is the role of the housing industry in affecting national policy, as Ben W. Ansell's chapter convincingly argues and others also highlight. One old theme is the state's capacity to regulate important industries, especially finance. Another old theme is the interaction between government partisanship and domestic political institutions, and the limited scope that even highly partisan governments have for acting decisively to adjust to the crisis—and enact reforms in the crisis's wake—as a result of institutional and electoral roadblocks."
"5","Together, these are three important conclusions that should generate wide discussion. These arguments emerge most effectively in the qualitative comparative chapters that examine politics and policy across limited pairs of countries: the United Kingdom and Ireland, France and Germany, the Nordic Countries, and the GIIPS. The single‐country chapters on the United States and Japan are also very effective, if more difficult to place in the volume's comparative scope. Perhaps inevitably, the volume's central themes are least visible in the cross‐national statistical chapters."
"6","The volume is essential reading, but at times, it is not easy reading. Chapters by Klaus Armingeon and Lucio Baccaro on the GIIPS and Eric Helleiner on international coordination and policy responses are accessible to a large audience, but others are not, focusing as they do more on theoretical debates that may not resonate among non‐specialists. Contributions by Ben W. Ansell, Torben Iversen and David Soskice, and David Rueda—while compelling and incisive—are too technical for a broad readership. It would be regrettable if this limited the volume's reach, for each and every topic covered by these chapters lies at the very foundations of contemporary capitalism in the advanced industrial economies."
"7","                        "
"8","THOMAS B. PEPINSKY"
"9","Cornell University"
