"","x"
"1","Mainstream international relations scholarship assumes that the default political unit is the sovereign state and hence that the international system comprises such states in strategic or social interaction. Even scholarship that explores failed or partially sovereign states treats departures as anomalies and, often, things to be fixed. In this arresting book, Andrew Phillips and J.C. Sharman argue that a teleology shapes international relations research: namely, that the sovereign state dominates because it is the human race's fittest political unit. It has evolutionary advantages—military, technological, economic, social—over alternative forms. Thus, the international system that emerges from states’ interactions is the final form of global politics."
"2","Phillips and Sharman challenge this teleology with a sustained analysis of a region and time period that international relations has barely attended to: the Indian Ocean littoral from 1500 to 1900, where three types of polities—the sovereign state (the Portuguese Estado da Índia), the empire (chiefly the Mughal), and the company sovereign (the Dutch and English East India Companies, respectively)—interacted and thrived for centuries to mutual benefit. The persistent heterogeneity of political units in this vast region during this 400‐year period shows that under certain conditions, evolutionary pressures yield not a single type of polity but a diversity of polity types interacting to mutual benefit."
"3","The authors offer three conditions that explain this durable heteronomy. First, the units (or their rulers) had compatible preferences. The Mughals and other rulers and the Portuguese merchant‐adventurers of the sixteenth century all wanted to reap the gains from trade and saw that they were in a positive‐sum game. Second, the actors’ ideas and institutions were congruent to a degree. Asians and Africans agreed with Europeans that heteronomy, or divided power, was acceptable across the region; no ruler need be sovereign over territory in the modern sense. Finally, and more specifically, all rulers accepted a degree of localized authority. So long as they acknowledged his primacy, the Mughal emperor allowed Europeans, and other Asians, a measure of local control. Thus did powerful actors strike durable bargains under which Asians and Africans would continue to rule inland but the Portuguese could get rich by monopolizing certain ports. The Dutch and English who arrived in the seventeenth century struck similar bargains. For the land‐oriented Mughals, these seafarers from afar posed no threat."
"4","The bargains were stable but not permanent, and Phillips and Sharman narrate and analyze their changes. One powerful insight is in the story of how the Dutch and English East India Companies supplanted the Portuguese state. Observing the advantages that these companies had—they had better armies and navies, and they innovated to meet new challenges—kings of Portugal simply were not willing to imitate them because that would have required ceding too much power to Portuguese merchants (pp. 125–126). The authors also argue that decay in Asian and African polities drew the company sovereigns to begin conquering territory in the eighteenth century and eventually drew the British state to take control from the East India Company in the 1850s."
"5","Phillips and Sharman make a compelling case that evolutionary pressures can yield a variety of international equilibria, depending on social conditions. They note that today's global system of unitary sovereign states is historically anomalous and contend that the rise of China, coupled with the historically heteronomous norms of Asia, makes the point not merely academic. Evidence that today's Chinese and their neighbors are quite attached to the norm of territorial sovereignty, however, suggests that Asia's future will be no more heteronomous than its present. Still, this important book raises the right questions concerning the evolution of international systems, and it offers and defends serious answers."
"6","                        "
"7","JOHN OWEN"
"8","University of Virginia"
