"","x"
"1","The title of this book suggests that it will focus on the evolving Latino electorate, which will influence the future of American politics. Ricardo Ramírez theorizes that context is the key variable explaining Latino political behavior. Context explains why mobilizing Latinos can make Latinos vital to national politics. Ramírez argues that he is the first to recognize this, which is why previous work has failed to explain the extent of contemporary Latino influence and how that influence will increase over time."
"2","It is clearly incorrect to argue that Americanists have ignored the importance of context, as V.O. Key's Southern Politics illustrates. More to the point, the series on Latino influence on presidential elections that Ramírez asserts ignores context consists of case studies of Latino involvement in presidential elections and includes the same states that Ramírez analyzes. Indeed, the series was designed to document the impact that changing contexts have had on Latino influence on presidential elections. (I should note that I am the principal editor of this series.)         "
"3","Ramírez also faults analysts who succumb to the assertion that “demography is destiny.” He notes that context determines the value of demography. This is illustrated by the different consequences of population growth in Texas and California. Latino influence in Texas has not prevented Republicans from strengthening their control of the state, while California has witnessed the greatest increase in Latino influence anywhere in the nation. Moreover, Ramírez cites Arizona as the state where mobilizing potential offers the best chance for Latinos to become strongly significant players. That potential is based on demographics, suggesting that destiny may indeed depend on growing numbers."
"4","His own analysis yields less than he claims. His major claim regarding the centrality of context is neither original nor fully accurate. Perhaps a more careful operationalization that focused on the key variable that defines context. As it is, context can include so much that it becomes meaningless. Moreover, a key contextual variable that is almost completely ignored is labor unions. Unions have played a major role in mobilizing Latino voters in California, Colorado, New York, and Nevada, but Ramírez only notes the link between labor and mobilization in Nevada. This is a significant oversight. Similarly problematic is that Ramírez ignores Robert Erikson's chapter in a book he cites that indicates how even a mobilized Latino electorate is unlikely to affect state‐level outcomes of presidential elections."
"5","Ramírez's analysis of the impact of cohorts as a unit of analysis in mobilization research is unique and insightful. His analysis of the impact of fear on the naturalized citizen cohort socialized in the Proposition 187 context is persuasive and a valuable contribution of the study. He also presents a rich description of the Latino media's role in mobilizing Latinos but raises key questions that are left unanswered. For example, what percentage of the media's audience is undocumented? How does mobilizing nonvoters into nonelectoral activities influence electoral mobilization among citizens? Does the influence of the media continue after immigrants acquire English and become increasingly socialized in American politics? Also, what impact does the Latino media have on bilingual and English‐dominant Latinos relative to Spanish‐dominant Latinos, given that most of the latter cannot vote, while most of the English dominant can? Surprisingly, he ignores language competence, which is a necessary condition for whatever influence the Latino media have."
"6","Overall, although Ramírez does not explain how Latinos will shape the American electorate, as seems to have been one of his goals, the insights he generates make his analysis deserving of serious attention."
"7","                        "
"8","RODOLFO O. DE LA GARZA"
"9","Columbia University"
