"","x"
"1","Historical memory often runs the risk of oversimplifying the past. After three‐quarters of a century, who remembers much of what actually happened at the famous Bretton Woods Conference of 1944? In three weeks (July 1–22), 44 wartime allies managed to agree on the creation of a pair of entirely new multilateral institutions, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank), essentially setting the framework for the postwar economic order. Pick up any standard treatment, and what you will read is that the negotiations were dominated by two major powers: the United States, led by Harry Dexter White, and Great Britain, led by John Maynard Keynes. It was the Americans and the British, along with their European allies, that set the agenda and determined the final outcome. Poorer nations (the “South”) had little voice or leverage. Their interest in promoting economic development was conveniently swept under the rug."
"2","In fact, as Eric Helleiner ably demonstrates, the reality was quite different. In a masterly historical analysis based on extensive archival research, Helleiner shows that poorer nations were anything but voiceless. Their delegates played an active role in shaping the discussions, and their development aspirations were by no means ignored. In previous works on topics as varied as the postwar revival of global finance and the evolution of money, Helleiner has already established himself as an outstanding historian of the international political economy. In this book, once again, he has done an important service in correcting the historical record. The book is organized into eight chapters—four chapters on the steps leading up to the 1944 conference and four chapters on the conference itself, all written in the author's usual lucid manner."
"3","The foundations of Bretton Woods, Helleiner shows, stretch back to the 1930s, when creative financial partnerships were established between the United States and Latin American policymakers—part of Franklin D. Roosevelt's broader Good Neighbor policy. Particularly important was a negotiation in 1939–1940 to create a new multilateral lending institution, the Inter‐American Bank. Although stillborn, the Inter‐American Bank served in critical respects as an early model for the IMF and World Bank. Its central mandate was to promote economic development in Latin America. Building on these foundations, White made a point of including development as a core U.S. commitment in the successive drafts that he exchanged with Keynes in the years of preparing for Bretton Woods."
"4","At the conference, with Washington's backing, poorer nations managed to get their voices heard on a number of crucial issues. The Latin Americans, in particular, were unusually cohesive. Their imprint could be found in both the development mandate of the new World Bank and the possibility of more generous IMF financing for commodity‐exporting countries. Latin America's efforts were reinforced by support from other poorer regions, including China, inspired by early writings of Sun Yat‐sen, and India."
"5","It also helped that with 19 delegations from Latin America and five from Asia, poorer nations were a numerical majority at a conference where each government formally had one vote. Although, in practice, most decisions were taken by consensus, the South's numbers made a significant difference. Washington was eager to see the Bretton Woods Treaty ratified by as many governments as possible in order to bolster the pact's legitimacy. As Helleiner points out, that gave the South more leverage than might otherwise have been thought possible—just one of the many keen insights offered by the author's meticulous scholarship."
"6","                        "
"7","BENJAMIN J. COHEN"
"8","University of California, Santa Barbara"
