"","x"
"1","This book examines the political and judicial calculations driving President Richard Nixon's Supreme Court nominations. Those include four nominees—Warren Burger, Harry Blackmun, Lewis Powell, and William Rehnquist—who were confirmed by the Senate to serve on the Court, two—Clement Haynsworth and Harold Carswell—who were rejected, and others considered by Nixon but never formally nominated. Kevin McMahon makes excellent use of the extensive archival record and the infamous oval office tapes to provide a persuasive case that Nixon chose his nominees largely on the basis of electoral calculations, particularly his desire to hive what came to be called “Reagan Democrats”—lower‐income, urban‐based ethnic voters—off from the Roosevelt‐constructed New Deal coalition. This was, McMahon reminds us, as much a Northern as a Southern strategy; in choosing nominees, Nixon was motivated less by Southern‐directed racial politics than by growing public discontent with the perceived breakdown of social order. To capitalize on this sentiment, Nixon sought nominees, like Burger, whom he could market as law‐and‐order justices."
"2","This is not to say that Nixon completely ignored race or the South in choosing nominees. His choice of the two failed nominees Haynsworth and Carswell, as well as Powell's selection, were driven in part by his desire to strengthen his political support in the South. But even on racially charged issues like school busing, Nixon charted a moderate path—he accepted its use to remedy de jure segregation—between the race‐baiting presidential candidacy of George Wallace and those of liberal Democrats Hubert Humphrey and George McGovern. Beyond these two issues, however, McMahon does not find much evidence that Nixon cared very much about his nominees' attitudes toward other hot‐button items such as abortion or pornography. Nixon's focus on electoral concerns also meant that he did not fully grasp the importance of judicial competence until after the Haynsworth/Carswell rejections. Even then, Nixon played up Rehnquist's legal credentials in part because his selection otherwise had no electoral or symbolic significance. More generally, one is struck, in reading McMahon's account, by how little effort Nixon made to gauge his nominees' probable long‐term influence on the Supreme Court's ideological direction."
"3","It is difficult, of course, even with the extensive documentary evidence, to discern how much of Nixon's judicial pragmatism was driven by his preference for a particular type of justice, and how much reflects the political constraints that limited his options when choosing nominees. Although cognizant of the constraints, including a limited pool of acceptable justices, McMahon tends to emphasize Nixon's electoral motives as the driving force behind his choices. As a result, readers looking for a detailed analysis of the judicial voting record of Nixon's four appointees will be disappointed. Although McMahon situates his book within a larger debate about the impact of the Nixon‐shaped Supreme Court on judicial politics, he spends far less time discussing legal doctrine or Court cases than he does nomination politics."
"4","This is a nicely researched, well‐documented, if perhaps overly lengthy book. McMahon writes clearly, although some readers may find his tendency to drive home a point by repeating it, usually with some version of “in other words…” mildly irritating. The book is stronger when McMahon allows Nixon to speak for himself, as when discussing the political benefits likely to accrue from appointing a woman to the Court: “Hell, I'm against it myself, but it's got to be done.” (Despite the political appeal, Nixon never found a suitable woman candidate, and it was left to Reagan to break the gender barrier by appointing Sandra Day O'Connor to the Court in 1981.)"
"5","Certainly the topic is timely, given the growing influence of the Supreme Court in American politics, and the concomitant interest in nomination politics. In his conclusion, McMahon speculates that Nixon would be both jealous and proud of today's Supreme Court—jealous that his successors, in filling Supreme Court vacancies, had a much larger pool of judicially conservative activist judges on which to draw, but proud that he had something to do with it. I'm not so certain. As McMahon documents, Nixon was a political pragmatist by dint of both political necessity as well as temperament and ideology. It is not clear, based on McMahon's account, whether Nixon would have wanted a more ideologically tinged Court composed of Scalias, Alitos, and Thomases, unless he thought it would help him electorally. Nor, for that matter does McMahon clearly show how Nixon contributed to the rise of the judicial right, beyond appointing Rehnquist. In short, it is no longer Nixon's Court—and Nixon might be glad of that."
"6","            "
"7","MATTHEW J. DICKINSON"
"8","Middlebury College"
