"","x"
"1","Globalization is now one of the defining characteristics of world politics, and one of its most contentious. In Gridlock, Thomas Hale, David Held, and Kevin Young offer an ambitious and sweeping treatment of contemporary global issues that combines sociology, political economy, and international relations.         "
"2","They argue that although post‐World War II international institutions encouraged globalization, they have failed to keep up with the challenges of globalization. Post‐World War II institutions contributed to improved prosperity, free trade, a managed peace, and spreading democratization. The institutions were backed up by a stable bipolar balance of power, common global norms of embedded liberalism, and a willingness to delegate to experts."
"3","Yet, the institutions spawned a whole set of seemingly ungovernable social externalities that elude sovereign institutions: terrorism, failed states, piracy, cyber security, pandemics, the control of multinational corporations, and financial governance."
"4","A series of major cleavages that occurred in the 1970s brought into doubt the current utility of the existing landscape of global governance. Complex interdependence, new actors, and the blurring of foreign and domestic policy (and thus international relations and comparative politics) changed the political landscape of global governance. Similarly, other changes in the background conditions of the international system occurred: growing multipolarity and disagreements among the major powers, the rise of the BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India and China), the emergence of more‐difficult policy challenges, and a democratic challenge of overly technocratic expertise led to a condition of “gridlock” in the international system and its inability to respond effectively to the new global challenges. Gridlock—institutional failure to contribute to effective coordinated problems on the contemporary agenda—takes two salient forms: first, there is no responsible body for a particular issue; and second, there are no effective means for coordinating all the bodies that can contribute to deal with interconnected issues."
"5","The authors' depiction of contemporary globalization is consistent with most recent historical and historiographical treatments of globalization from historical sociology, world history, and international relations. Their methodological style of focused comparative cases as exemplars of the broader trends in global politics is consistent with some of the most‐sweeping recent studies of globalization and governance."
"6","Their diagnosis of the roots of gridlock refreshingly goes beyond simple arguments for a renewed U.S. role in the world. Problems are harder to solve than before because of the complex interlinkages between issues and because of the complex political two‐level games by which coordinated policy responses (or governance) are forged. Rather, they focus on four institutional features (or “Pathways”) that shape multilateral governance: growing multipolarity and the attendant difficulty of coordinating a growing number of parties' interests and practices (transaction costs) and normative differences; institutional inertia and the persistence of archaic decision‐making practices; harder problems, from the interdependence of issues on the agenda and the greater penetration of them into domestic society; and fragmentation resulting from the disarray of regimes designed to govern individual issues."
"7","Their empirical analysis covers a wide range of new global threats from international security to international political economy and the environment. These threats include: the containment of major wars, failed states, arms control, law of war, humanitarian crises, pandemics, trade, finance, the institutional limits of UNEP (United National Environment Programme) and global environmental conferences, climate change, and forestry governance."
"8","Although the authors provide a common framework for understanding the nature of contemporary challenges to effective global governance, their proposals are surprisingly scant. They suggest broadened public discourse and debate (p. 286), broader involvement of civil society in global governance, and stronger institutional integration (p. 303). Yet, there are few concrete ideas about how to achieve these reforms."
"9","Surprisingly the authors do not discuss how states that have been habituated to pathways of inertial and myopic governance are to make the sudden shift to resolving the problems. The analysis is more structural than volitional; while thoroughly analyzing the international structure giving rise to multilateralism and inhibiting governance of new problems, they do not provide a meaningful theory of change."
"10","Despite my caveats, this is one of the major statements of global governance that goes beyond realist power‐based laments about the decline of U.S. hegemony. It provides a refreshing institutional perspective on the nature of the problems and the prospects for meaningful progress."
"11","                        "
"12","PETER M. HAAS"
"13","University of Massachusetts Amherst"
