"","x"
"1","Sally J. Kenney addresses an important question in her book on women judges, a question that she argues has been ignored by scholars who study women and politics as well as those who study law and courts, namely, what difference does it make that women are underrepresented on the bench. Attempting to remedy this gap in the literature, Kinney adopts a new approach that bases its claim for greater inclusion of women on the courts on principles of democracy and legitimacy, rather than on their differences."
"2","Kinney devotes the first part of her argument to critiquing scholarship on “differences” theory or “essentialism.” She concedes that there are valid reasons for using sex as a variable in studying the judiciary, but maintains that most scholars use the variable to look for sex differences in judicial voting and then use the differences to justify putting more women on the bench. After reviewing much of this literature, she concludes that there is little empirical evidence to support the theory of “essentialism” because there are few, if any, differences between the sexes in voting behavior."
"3","Each of the remaining chapters is a case study that illustrates the use of gender analysis. She probes for explanations, such as discrimination or backlash (the latter exemplified by the unseating of California Supreme Court Chief Justice Rose Bird), for the underrepresentation of women on the bench. The book provides a wealth of information about women and courts, including non‐U.S. courts, such as the U.K. Law Lords and the European Court of Justice. Throughout, she convincingly demonstrates that a gender analysis offers a better understanding of why women are excluded from consideration as judges, why they are unlikely to be appointed or elected, and why they are easily removed."
"4","She concludes that it is “really” important to have gender diversity on the bench, not because women are different, but because their presence sustains the legitimacy of the judicial system. Pointing to the French theory of parité, she maintains that the case for equal gender representation among public officials did not rest on women's differences, but on their status as “citizens who had a right to be in government” (p. 13)."
"5","In urging greater representation of women on the courts, she does not insist that the women be feminists. She wants more feminist judges, but to be consistent, she also wants more women whether they are feminists or not. In the end, she analogizes gender diversity to geographic diversity, pointing out that the latter is an acceptable reason to include a variety of interests and experiences on courts."
"6","Kinney ably shows the value of a gender analysis in studying the courts to expand our knowledge of the status and role of women on the bench. In doing so, she makes a convincing case for applying her more‐robust gender analysis than simply using sex as a variable to measure voting behavior. However, although the gender analysis sheds much light on women judges, I am not persuaded of its utility in discerning meaningful comparisons between the sexes. For example, in discussing the backlash that led to Bird's ouster, she suggests that gender was the key to that outcome. The difficulty, however, is that this analysis does not explain how to compare women with men who are also victims of backlash (such as the three Iowa judges—two of whom were men—who were ousted for approving same‐sex marriage)."
"7","Kinney's book is well worth reading by scholars who are interested in judicial politics and women and politics, as well as a wider audience interested in the role of women judges more generally."
"8","                        "
"9","SUSAN GLUCK MEZEY"
"10","Loyola University Chicago"
