"","x"
"1","Since the 1960s, the Republican Party has increasingly become the party of religious traditionalists and evangelical Christians, while the Democratic Party has become the home of religious liberals/modernists and secular Americans. This rising partisan “God gap” has led scholars and pundits to pay close attention to religion in modern politics, but the true causes and consequences of the religious divide are still debated."
"2","The prevailing scholarly wisdom is that American political parties have been “captured” by religious and secular activists. Specifically, this “mobilization” thesis argues that the Christian right hijacked the Republican Party by mobilizing evangelical activists against liberal policies during the 1960s and 1970s. Secular activists—the story goes—captured the Democratic Party as a result of the backlash over the Republican Party being taken over by conservative Christians."
"3","While mobilization has certainly occurred, Ryan Claassen advances a new “representation‐based” model to explain the changing role of religion in party politics. The story that Claassen tells is remarkably—and perhaps dishearteningly—simple: evangelicals and secular Americans are more influential in party politics today in large part because there are comparatively more of them today than during the 1960s (because of better generational retention than, namely, mainline Protestants) and because they have become wealthier and better educated. For instance, evangelicals are increasingly Republican activists and voters, but this is primarily the result of improved socioeconomic status and the southern party realignment over race rather than mobilization over so‐called morality politics."
"4","While the book arguably overstates the strength of and scholarly consensus on the mobilization story, Claassen does an admirable job of advancing a compelling new theory. His representation‐based model is explicated both verbally and mathematically, allowing him to generate precise testable propositions and counterfactuals. Claassen carefully and expertly examines nearly 60 years' worth of data to demonstrate that much of what scholars attributed to political maneuvering is just an artifact of basic demographic and socioeconomic evolution."
"5","Throughout this brief book, Claassen generates a number of findings that will force scholars and pundits to rethink many conclusions about the role of religion in party politics. For example, unlike many studies arguing that religious traditionalism is driving the partisan “God gap,” religious traditions are shown to be stronger predictors of changing opinions and voting behavior than church attendance, while religious attendance strengthens partisan loyalty on both sides. Additionally, Claassen provides a fascinating take on partisan evolution by arguing that modern secular Democratic activists have more in common with past mainline Republican activists than modern evangelical activists do. This says much about seculars' political heritage and the origins of current political polarization, but beyond showing that seculars' support for the Democrats is not the result of religious antipathy, there is not much to help us understand seculars' political loyalty and how it may change in the future. The book would benefit from greater attention to the opinions and values of secular voters.         "
"6","Overall, Claassen makes a strong contribution to the current literature on religion and party politics as well as studies of representation, partisan activism, and political polarization. The normative implications are more challenging. On the positive side, political activists are shown to be fairly representative of their party's voters. Party supporters are increasingly evangelical or secular, which, in turn, means the party activists drawn from these supporter pools are as well—there is no party capture. However, this means that the polarization and “culture war” between the parties is the result of more fundamental and intrinsic societal forces. Divides between religious traditions will continue to matter, especially as more Americans become secular, with resulting partisan and ideological divisions creating political challenges far into the future."
"7","            "
"8","BEN GASKINS"
"9","Lewis and Clark College"
