"","x"
"1","There are good reasons to have this book on your shelf. In fact, after my first reading, I ordered it for my seminar on mass media and politics. One can look to the meticulous historical coverage of the development of Internet campaigns for the presidency from 1996 to 2012 or admire the prodigious effort at organization that makes the history pleasant to read. Or one can consider the thoughtful exposition of the role of digital communication technology in the potential expansion of democracy and participation. Jennifer Stromer‐Galley, while admitting that she is generally cynical on the issue of whether the Internet will strengthen democracy, points to the establishment of a new “two‐step flow” of political communications, whereby “super‐supporters” are provided with the online materials necessary to activate their friends and associates through social media."
"2","Stromer‐Galley highlights the dilemma of participatory democracy within the context of a well‐disciplined online campaign. To use all of the interactive capability of the Internet is to try to manage chaos, as strong supporters are prone to go off on their own, producing online ads, videos, and parodies that are inconsistent with the image the candidate is trying to project. These efforts can sometimes be beneficial, as in Barack Obama's 2008 campaign. However, in seeking to craft an image online, the candidate strives to construct a “parasocial interaction” that contrives to give the illusion of a face‐to‐face relationship (p. 91). For this reason, the modern campaign limits opportunities for true interactivity, pursuing a top‐down approach in a “grassroots” environment."
"3","Thus, the demand characteristic of the modern Internet campaign is to harness grassroots supporters in the production of “big data” that will allow the campaign to target voters through e‐mail appeals, particularly for small, repeated donations, and to provide get‐out‐the‐vote information on the day of the election. As Stromer‐Galley details, these innovations began to prove themselves in the 2004 campaigns of Howard Dean and Wesley Clark. These two campaigns demonstrated the efficacy of raising money online in small donations and, in the case of the Deaniacs, motivation to travel long distances to attempt face‐to‐face interactions with people involved in the Iowa caucus. As is acknowledged, the local attitude toward Dean supporters was something akin to the arrival of aliens in a cornfield, and that was substantially more important in his demise as a candidate than the “scream heard round the world.”"
"4","For Stromer‐Galley, 2004 was the watershed for online campaigning, marking a “paradigm shift,” which that meant that subsequent campaigns could not do without an online component and presidential campaigns would have to accommodate, however uncomfortably, to digital communications technology. In each election since, the Democratic Party has outperformed Republicans in the integration of digital and traditional campaigns. In 2008, Obama “harnessed chaos” in adopting the methods of social media for good or ill (but mostly good in Obama's case). John McCain, burdened by his connection to the 2002 electoral reforms, accepted presidential matching money and, with it, campaign funding limits, and he could not compete with the Internet money machine."
"5","The discussion of the 2012 election suggests that a temporary equilibrium may have been reached between technological development, on the one hand, and the imagination of the campaign staff, on the other. Stromer‐Galley suggests that Obama's philosophical orientation as a community organizer created synergy between his online campaign and the media environment. In the Republican primary, no candidate was without a Web site and a social media consultant. But the technical people were not experienced with the surges that can accompany turns in the campaign. Thus, for example, Rick Santorum's Web site crashed after his win in Iowa. By the end of the election, 75 percent of Internet users had gone online for information about the campaign. The Internet, or digital communication technology, as Stromer‐Galley calls it, had become central to the successful political campaign."
"6","                        "
"7","KATHLEEN KNIGHT"
"8","Columbia University"
