"","x"
"1","This book covers roughly three years (1973–1976) of American political history. It is less a traditional biography and more a portrait of an era, with four American presidents standing in the foreground. Its focus is supposed to be Ronald Reagan; the title promises that this is the story of his political ascent. But Reagan often falls out of the story completely."
"2","The book opens in 1970 near the end of the Vietnam War. Rick Perlstein introduces his readers to the “suspicious circles,” that large segment of Americans for whom the nation was no longer innocent or just, its leaders no longer trustworthy. This group was a product of 1960s protest movements, especially the widespread disillusionment with the war in Southeast Asia. Opposite them was a group of Americans clinging to the idea of American exceptionalism. While Perlstein does not give this group its own catchy name—I suppose the “New Right” will have to do—they are the ones who became Reagan's constituents."
"3","About half the book focuses on the Watergate scandal. Perlstein painstakingly documents every political maneuver in this presidential quagmire as well as the era's many distressing news stories: drugged Halloween candy, airplane hijackings, the Patty Hearst abduction, and wars in the Middle East, to name a few. At times, Perlstein bludgeons his readers with the massive quantity of bad news; he seems to be trying to replicate the feeling of 1970s cultural fatigue. In this first half of the book, Ronald Reagan often is politically out of step with the time. Long after almost everyone else on the left and right abandoned Richard Nixon, Reagan continued to defend him and claim that Watergate was a non‐issue."
"4","The second half of the book follows the first two years of Gerald Ford's presidency. Perlstein portrays Ford as a victim of bad luck and the hard compromises of governing. Reagan steps into this political malaise and offers the right wing of the Republican Party an alternative. Perlstein treats the last 150 pages of the book as if he had finally arrived at the real story: that of the 1976 presidential primary battles. Here Jimmy Carter wins the Democratic nomination by promising everything to everybody and Reagan gives the sitting president a run for his money. The Republican nomination eventually comes down to 150 uncommitted delegates. Although Ford wins, Perlstein makes clear that the overwhelming enthusiasm for Reagan at the convention is a sign of the times to come."
"5","Perlstein's Ronald Reagan is a man who learned early to manage a hard life with simplistic morality tales. In fact, it is that moral code, rather than the politics, that remains constant in Reagan's life. In the 1976 campaign, Reagan sates many Americans' need for heroes and villains, all while playing fast and loose with political truth. The truth was always secondary to the moral message."
"6","This is a thoroughly readable, often compelling book that succeeds in offering new insight into major figures, a success for a political biography. But as a portrait of an era, I was less compelled. Perlstein's division of Americans into those who were clear‐eyed cynics and naive nationalists ignores the complexities of the American electorate. Beyond that, I question Perlstein's decision to focus only on the early 1970s. The Invisible Bridge often feels like a bloated first installment rather than a self‐contained monograph.         "
"7","One hurdle for academic readers might be that this book has no footnotes in the hard copy; they are all on Perlstein's Web site. Yet because so many newspapers, books, and even archival sources have been digitized, Perlstein has allowed readers to click from the notes directly to the source itself. Those links might not always be stable, but for now, they make it incredibly easy to check Perlstein's work, which is exactly what notes are supposed to do. This makes this book especially useful for students of history and American politics."
"8","                        "
"9","JENNIFER L. HOLLAND"
"10","University of Oklahoma"
