"","x"
"1","In an important and timely new book, Thomas J. Wright warns that the liberal international order is facing a deep and unprecedented crisis. The past five years have seen the “end of the era of convergence” and “the advent of a more nationalist and competitive world” (p. ix). Russian meddling in Ukraine, Chinese revisionism in the South China Sea, and the escalation of civil strife across the Middle East are signs of a new era of “high‐stakes peacetime competition” in global politics (p. xii). Rather than reduce its international role or seek to accommodate its geopolitical rivals, the United States should pursue a strategy of “responsible competition” designed both to defend and to rebuild the liberal order (p. xiii)."
"2","Among the many virtues of this book are its clarity and precision. Wright draws on international relations theory where appropriate, but he does not burden his argument with picayune debates. He is also careful not to overstate his claims. He acknowledges that “there is contradictory evidence on China's intentions” (p. 71) while making the case that China seeks to carve out its own sphere of influence. He accepts that Russia is “locked into a long‐term economic decline” (p. 51), yet he carefully explains how it is nevertheless “determined to use its hard power to revise the European security order” (p. 52). His policy recommendations are equally nuanced. To contest Chinese ambitions, he recommends “increased military cooperation between Asian countries” (p. 98) yet counsels against “drawing read lines and threatening war” (p. 209)."
"3","While the book persuasive on the whole, there are places where one could push back on Wright's claims. First, it is not clear that the global order today is markedly more unstable and competitive than it has been in the past. The main piece of evidence for Chinese revisionism is its behavior in the South China Sea, yet, as Wright notes, China has also cooperated on counterterrorism, climate change, nuclear proliferation, and the global economy (p. 218). Russia's annexation of Ukraine was striking, but it followed a pattern of Russian meddling in the affairs of its near abroad dating to the mid‐1990s. The United States faces many challenges in the Middle East, but its position was arguably more vexing a decade ago, when it had more than 100,000 troops bogged down in Iraq, al Qaeda affiliates were on the march, and Osama bin Laden remained at large. When compared with the global superpower rivalry of the Cold War, contemporary revisionism appears to be far more improvised and contained."
"4","Second, Wright never settles on a succinct explanation for why revisionism is rising. Sometimes the causes seem to be discrete. Europe is struggling because of some combination of the Eurozone crisis, the Crimean annexation, Brexit, and heightened refugee flows (p. 65). If this is the case, perhaps a more modest, tailored set of initiatives might be best, rather than a sweeping new strategy. Other times, Wright hints that the causes of the crisis are deeper, possibly inescapable. He observers that not every state perceives “the liberal order as benign” (p. 16) and that the key pillars of the system, such as free trade and democracy, “no longer appear to offer what they once promised” (p. 162). Yet if the system is so broken, this raises the awkward question of why the United States should invest heavily to repair it."
"5","All of this leads us to the third, and perhaps most important, criticism: just how distinct and coherent would a strategy of “responsible competition” be? The United States should sell arms to allies and revive multilateral trade pacts in Asia while not taking sides in maritime disputes. It should reassure NATO members and provide nonlethal assistance to Ukraine yet also “exercise caution to avoid providing Putin with a pretext” for escalation (p. 204). It should “reengage with America's traditional Arab allies” (p. 215) but also “avoid the temptation to unconditionally support” dictators, such as Egyptian president Abdel Fattah al‐Sisi (p. 216)."
"6","Some critics might argue these recommendations are too “responsible” given the scale of the revisionist challenge. Others might fear that the rhetorical emphasis on “competition” will escalate tensions and foreclose opportunities to cooperate on global issues. Wright has produced an essential starting place to debate how the United States might mix confrontation and accommodation in an era of crafty revisionists, diminished resources, and ideological turmoil."
"7","                        "
"8","PAUL K. MACDONALD"
"9","Wellesley College"
