"","x"
"1","Have you heard the one about Ike and Dick? Too often, the inner workings of presidential administrations are like old jokes, with canned vignettes serving as the punch lines. John W. Malsberger offers a fresh look at the political partnership between Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard M. Nixon, subjecting old tropes to thorough archival research and placing them in political context. The General and the Politician is a clear and concise political history of the two men's relationship and their role in shaping the modern Republican Party. It is well titled, for the nature of Eisenhower's and Nixon's careers and training—as a general and as a politician, respectively—is essential to understanding both the distance and the dependency in their relationship.         "
"2","Few in early 1952 would have paired Eisenhower and Nixon together. But this was precisely why they appeared on the same ticket: their partnership was to bind together two wings of the GOP and transform it into “a modern, centrist party” that could compete with the Democrats (p. xv). Eisenhower saw a stronger GOP as necessary to reestablish a vital two‐party system, while a large and competitive GOP was essential for Nixon's political future. But if they agreed on ends, they differed on means. Malsberger points to differences in each man's backgrounds as the root of their differences. At West Point and in the army, Eisenhower gained “well developed and deeply rooted values” that he adhered to in his political life. Nixon, however, had “no core, no bedrock values” beyond political ambition (p. xv)."
"3","Malsberger examines the famous episodes of the relationship: the 1952 fund crisis, the showdown with Joe McCarthy, Nixon's responsibilities during Eisenhower's recuperation from illness, and Eisenhower's infamous press conference remark that he would need a week to think of a major policy decision taken by Nixon. The 1954 election best reveals the men's different views of politics: both wanted the very best for the GOP, but Eisenhower wanted a “temperate, high‐minded, issue oriented campaign,” while Nixon wanted “a rip‐roaring bare‐knuckled” brawl (p. 60). Overall, Malsberger's distinction between Eisenhower's virtue and Nixon's crass politicking holds up well throughout the book. The exception is the 1952 fund crisis. Malsberger offers an excellent account, but not one that convinces the reader Eisenhower was without killer political instincts."
"4","In spite of their differences, the pair won election again in 1956, followed Eisenhower's “middle way in politics,” and enshrined the GOP as a political force after decades in the wilderness (p. 117). In his second term, the president worked to prepare his vice president for a future leadership role in the GOP, especially by serving as a face of the administration in international affairs. And yet, Eisenhower would not endorse Nixon for the 1960 presidential nomination before the Republican convention, and Nixon seemed to sideline Eisenhower in the campaign. Malsberger convincingly argues that the events of 1960 can hardly be reduced to Eisenhower's lack of faith or Nixon's vindictiveness."
"5","Both men continued to need each other into the 1960s. Eisenhower wished to protect his legacy of a centrist GOP, and Nixon needed to build on that legacy to beat a Democratic candidate. Both men worked to prevent either the Goldwater or Rockefeller wing from taking over the party. In 1968, Eisenhower broke his own rule and endorsed Nixon: his one and only such preconvention endorsement."
"6","Ultimately, the personal relationship was not what mattered most to either man; their pairing was a means to larger ends. And so it is for Malsberger, who offers a nuanced understanding of the relationship's role not for its own sake but as the key to the GOP's postwar fortunes."
"7","                        "
"8","TIMOTHY ANDREWS SAYLE"
"9","Southern Methodist University"
