"","x"
"1","Since the market meltdown of 2008, the streets of Athens, Madrid, and Paris have been filled with people protesting government austerity. In the United States, a right‐of‐center protest movement calling itself the Tea Party has emerged, calling for reducing government spending, avoiding tax increases, cutting red tape, and shrinking the state. It helped to create an electoral wave that Republicans rode to victory in the 2010 midterm elections and has subsequently maintained pressure on the GOP in state capitols and in Washington."
"2","The Tea Party has already drawn the attention of legions of journalists and scholars. Jumping into the fray, historian Ronald Formisano has written a short history of the movement. He argues that it should be analyzed through the lens of “the powerful strain of historical populism in American political culture.”"
"3","The Tea Party is still evolving, and its porousness makes it easy for analysts to find whatever they start out looking for. Perhaps not surprisingly, Formisano—who has written a number of books on “populist” movements in American politics—finds the Tea Party to be a populist movement. Populism's premise is that the world is divided between a small number of oppressors and a much larger number of oppressed. And Tea Partiers do believe that government, Wall Street, and public‐sector unions have created a series of interlocking directorates to the detriment of the private‐sector middle class. Thus, the activists see themselves as outsiders to a system that is rigged against them."
"4","The movement's populist rhetoric aside, Formisano argues, it is now an unstable mixture of genuine grassroots activists and established right‐wing pressure groups. In addition, the movement overlaps more with the Christian Right than has hitherto been recognized. It has had a “powerful impact” on both political parties and a “transforming” one on the Republican Party. Formisano claims that looking ahead, the Tea Party will be confronted with significant challenges as the nation becomes more religiously and ethnically diverse (Tea Party adherents tend to be older white Christians). In addition, conflict between evangelicals and libertarians within the movement may bring it low."
"5","For readers of the nation's major periodicals, all of this is familiar stuff. Formisano elides strong claims, and his commendable effort to be evenhanded unfortunately yields bland conclusions. Part of the difficulty is that the analytic purchase of populism on such a kaleidoscopic formation is limited. Populism does not help the reader decide whether the Tea Party is a social movement, a party faction, or a bunch of corporate‐financed pressure groups. In Formisano's telling, it can be all three. Nor does it help readers weigh the various, and at times contradictory, accusations leveled at the Tea Party. One day pundits tell us that the movement comprises redneck racists; the next, it is a bunch of country‐club Republicans. Tea Party activists are reviving constitutional principles but are also anti‐intellectual extremists. The movement is said to be weak and riven with internal strife, but it has also transformed the Republican Party and recast the national agenda. It is a small slice of extreme conservatives, but nearly a third of the public identifies with it in some polls. Formisano provides some evidence for and against each of the different charges, but never really adjudicates between them. Quibbles aside, Formisano has written a readable and mercifully short introduction to the Tea Party. In addition to general readers looking to catch up on current events, Formisano's little book may prove useful in undergraduate courses in contemporary history or American politics."
"6","            "
"7","DANIEL DISALVO"
"8","City College of New York"
