"","x"
"1","Mitchel Sollenberger and Mark Rozell contribute immensely to the existing research on presidential power by providing the first comprehensive book on presidential czars. The central argument in this study is that presidential czars in the executive branch raise serious constitutional questions and represent an abuse of presidential power. In addition, the presence of czars undercuts the principles of separation of powers and checks and balances that are embedded within the American political system (p. 3)."
"2","This book focuses on three important aspects of presidential czars. First, the authors construct a workable definition of “presidential czars” for assessing presidential power. Second, they provide a detailed historical account of how individual presidents have incorporated czars into their administrations, and they provide empirical evidence to demonstrate which presidents in the modern period were more active at using czars. Finally, the authors conclude by providing suggestions for reforming the executive branch to cleanse it of the abuses that have arisen from the growth of czars. They argue that such reforms are needed in order to restore a better balance of power between the legislative and executive branches (p. 122)."
"3","Although the term “presidential czar” is not new to American politics, given that the media has used this phrase loosely throughout the twentieth century, this concept has not been strictly scrutinized by presidential scholars. Sollenberger and Rozell take on the task of providing a clear definition in order to identify which individuals within an administration should be classified as czars. According to the authors, a czar is “an executive branch official who is not confirmed by the Senate and is exercising all final decision‐making authority that often entails controlling budgetary programs, administering/coordinating a policy area, or otherwise promulgating rules, regulations, and orders that bind either government officials and/or the private sector” (p. 7). In essence, a presidential czar is an individual that undertakes a significant policy role, such as during policy implementation, beyond merely advising presidents."
"4","One of the main findings in this book is that the administration of Barack Obama relied on the largest number of czars of any administration dating back to Franklin Roosevelt (p. 146). Barack Obama and George W. Bush had the largest number of czars since the Gerald Ford administration. At the time of this book's publication, Obama had appointed 22 czars in his first term, while George W. Bush had a total of 11 czars during his presidency. Presidents from Ford through Bill Clinton had a combined total of 9 czars—Ford and Carter did not use any czars during their presidencies (p. 161)."
"5","Despite the importance of this study, there are areas of weakness. For example, the authors frequently explain that presidents use czars to centralize and control the policymaking process in the executive branch (p. 96). This is a very valid argument. However, they overlook the broader research on the administrative presidency that focuses on the different types of policy tools and powers that presidents use to centralize and politicize the executive branch. The second problem is that the authors conclude by providing very brief suggestions about how politicians might reform the executive branch to diminish the threat that presidential czars pose to the American political system. Specifically, the discussions lack specific details about how such reform measures could be introduced to curb presidential power. Despite these shortcomings, the authors have produced a pioneering study on presidential czars. This book will be of interest to a broad readership including presidency scholars, historians, political pundits, and members of the general public that are concerned about the state of presidential power."
"6","                        "
"7","ADAM L. WARBER"
"8","Clemson University"
