"","x"
"1","An enduring puzzle in international relations is why great powers often struggle to bend small allies to their will, despite the allies’ dependence. This paradox is evident in counterinsurgency campaigns in which embattled governments rely on assistance to survive, yet they are intransigent in the face of their patron's demands for reform. Walter C. Ladwig III explores the sources of patron influence in a meticulously researched new book. He argues that behind noncompliance lurks misaligned interests. The United States mistakenly believes that its interests are aligned with the client—after all, both want to defeat the insurgents—but the client often has divergent interests that clash with U.S. counterinsurgency prescriptions. Bringing interests back in line along this “forgotten front” (p. 7) is the key to influencing client behavior."
"2","Ladwig frames his argument in agency theory, characterizing the patron as a “principal” that delegates counterinsurgency tasks to an “agent” in exchange for compensation (that is, economic and military assistance). The best way to ensure that the agent complies is to structure its incentives such that it is better off serving the principal's interests. Incentives can be structured in two ways: inducement, which uses rewards to encourage the desired action, and conditionality, which mixes rewards with threats of withholding aid. Despite an apparent American penchant for inducement strategies, Ladwig argues convincingly that unilateral transfers of resources usually lead to poor outcomes. Carefully scoped conditions, on the other hand, can wondrously focus the recipient's attention on making reforms in the right environment. In short, “influence is more likely to flow from tight conditions on aid than from boundless generosity” (p. 313)."
"3","Three case studies marshal an impressive array of historical evidence in support of Ladwig's theory. He presents extensively sourced and compellingly written accounts of U.S. counterinsurgency assistance in the Philippines, South Vietnam, and El Salvador. The cases are divided into individual “influence events,” highlighting the within‐case variation in El Salvador, where the United States intermittently attempted both inducement and conditionality to varying degrees of effectiveness."
"4","The book illuminates new issues that deserve future research. An important question is why strategies are chosen in the first place. Estimates of the relative utility of inducement and conditionality may be misleading if strategies are chosen for reasons that relate systematically to the outcomes. For example, policymakers may avoid issuing demands if they believe that coercion will fail; this kind of anticipation effect would bias findings in favor of conditionality. Another hurdle to assessing relative utility, as seen in the South Vietnam and El Salvador cases, is that a principal may attempt to use both strategies simultaneously. This appears to happen because of the complicating presence of multiple principals and agents in counterinsurgency."
"5","Another set of questions concerns policymakers’ perceptions. While Ladwig argues that inducement rarely works, his cases suggest that policymakers may see what they are doing differently. The book's qualified success story—the Philippines—is credited to consistently applied conditionality, but it is not clear that key actors saw it that way. Much of the success in the Philippines came with the appointment of Ramon Magsaysay as secretary of national defense in 1950. Magsaysay shared many American preferences for reform, an alignment likely influenced by his close relationships with the U.S. military, including with Edward Lansdale, who served as his personal chief of staff (p. 115). Lansdale, as readers learn, was later an ardent proponent of an inducement strategy in South Vietnam (p. 160). It seems doubtful that the lesson Lansdale learned in the Philippines was that conditionality outperforms inducement."
"6","These questions do not detract from the quality of the book; rather, they highlight areas for inquiry in a promising research program. The Forgotten Front marks a valuable contribution to the rapidly growing literature on the causes and consequences of security assistance between states.         "
"7","                        "
"8","RENANAH F. MILES"
"9","Columbia University"
