"","x"
"1","Contemporary American politics is often characterized by partisan conflict and gridlock. When paired with debate about the extent of polarization in the mass public, congressional behavior provokes the question, “Why, then, do citizens continue to allow their representatives to do such a poor job representing them?” (p. 1). Marc J. Hetherington and Thomas J. Rudolph begin their book with this question. The answer, they argue, is the growing polarization of trust in government, which precludes policy consensus and pressure for action."
"2","This is a timely book that addresses concerns of academics and political observers alike. Hetherington and Rudolph delve into important contemporary issues, including legislative productivity, public support for government policies, and, ultimately, representation. Their findings point to one way the public provides perverse incentives for politicians. The public may want action and solutions to pressing problems, but it does not provide a consensus on specific policies and the resulting impetus for government responsiveness. While compelling, the authors could do even more here to note how the institutional structures of elections promote dyadic rather than collective responsiveness. The authors could then address more directly how their arguments about trust in government enter into this distinction."
"3","Beyond its primary argument about the connections between polarization, political trust, and policy consensus, there are several ways in which this book makes broader contributions to the study of political behavior. First, this book enters the debate about mass polarization. Hetherington and Rudolph add to a growing body of work that emphasizes affective polarization. However, through their arguments that link affective polarization to trust in government, and trust to willingness to make ideological sacrifices, the authors delve even further into the complexities of polarization, showing that differences in affective polarization can ultimately push people apart in terms of policy positions."
"4","Second, the authors make important connections between issue priming, motivated reasoning, and the weighting of different issues. For instance, issue salience (through priming) is important to how people form broad evaluations such as trust because most people do not consider all aspects of government performance. However, affective polarization can affect issue salience in two ways. It can lead to motivated reasoning in partisans' assessments of real‐world conditions and to choices in what issues to weight more or less heavily. This strain of argument has important implications for how we think about opinion formation and the multitude of ways in which partisan identities can enter into this process."
"5","Third, Hetherington and Rudolph make an interesting argument about why trust in government can be an important explanatory variable of people's opinions even if trust is not a stable attitude. The authors note that the focus on stability as a measure of attitude centrality has limitations, especially when people have ambivalent feelings; liking some parts of the government but disliking others. Moreover, instability can be generated by changes in context between the international and domestic arenas. Hetherington and Rudolph emphasize how these evaluations of trust are nonetheless central to people's willingness to make ideological sacrifices on policies."
"6","Throughout this book, the authors tackle a complicated subject and explore many steps in the chain of the broader argument. While they offer compelling evidence about affective polarization and the polarization of trust, the importance of issue priming, affective polarization and partisan assessment of conditions and partisan weighting of issues, and the links between trust in government and support for policies that require ideological sacrifice, the one missing link in the chain is the last step, showing that public consensus leads to action by Congress. The authors allude to this step with reference to research from 1987 that shows that when there is consensus among the public, members of Congress are most likely to pass laws (p. 214). However, in the context of greater partisan conflict in Congress today relative to 1987, and more primary election concerns, it is not obvious that even greater public consensus over policy solutions would preclude partisan conflict and gridlock."
"7","            "
"8","LAUREL HARBRIDGE"
"9","Northwestern University"
