"","x"
"1","Wenfang Tang perceives a core paradox in contemporary China: the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) state is profoundly authoritarian, and yet public opinion surveys suggest the population generally supports it. The public also expresses a surprisingly high degree of political trust for a country with such a strongly repressive political system. Tang contends that the political culture reflected in surveys is a critical factor that explains the CCP state's durability despite widespread expectations in the decade after the Tiananmen uprising (1989) that communist authoritarianism would collapse as a consequence of economic and communications development. Analyzing a large number of surveys from the early 1990s through the mid‐2010s, Tang probes these paradoxes, aiming to arrive at a comprehensive explanation of how the “populist authoritarian” political culture emerged and exerts its effects."
"2","Tang is more successful in demonstrating the operations of the culture—its expression in politics—than he is in tracing its origins. Although some readers will take issue with the argument that individual beliefs aggregated by researchers from surveys and public opinion polls can reflect a cultural whole capable of semiautonomously influencing politics, most will find Tang's rich and sophisticated discussion of survey results across a range of issue areas highly illuminating. Tang analyzes surveys related to regime support, government and life satisfaction, nationalism, interpersonal trust, contentious politics, and more. He reports on an experimental study conducted with a colleague on the subject of political trust. Specialists on Chinese and comparative politics will find Tang's discussion an excellent go‐to place to learn a core body of work in survey research on China and will be stimulated to think about it critically in a comparative context."
"3","Tang is less successful in his effort to develop a comprehensive theory of how the populist authoritarian culture arose and why it exerts what he perceives to be such a profound impact on politics. Tang traces the culture's origins to Maoist China, with its rural communes, urban work units, and “mass line” political activism, in which party cadres encouraged “the masses” to express their sociopolitical and economic demands and the cadres then reformulated the demands into actionable platforms for articulation back to the masses, who were then compelled to express enthusiastic acceptance. The results included the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution, among other mass‐mobilizational campaigns. Tang finds that the legacy of this core dimension of Maoism when expressed in the contemporary People's Republic of China's “mass society” (no intermediary institutions between state and society) is “dense social capital and group solidarity, high political trust and regime support, strong national identity, direct public political involvement, particularly at a local level, a high level of government responsiveness, and the underdevelopment of intermediate institutions and procedures which are characteristic of a civil society” (p. 152)."
"4","Readers can decide for themselves the degree to which that description captures contemporary China. Certainly, Tang makes a powerful case in his expert analysis of the surveys. There are two fundamental questions: First, was Maoist China truly characterized by a responsive state and high levels of organic solidarity within the communes and units? In fact, the opposite seems true: communes and units, for example, were seething with conflict. Second, however we characterize the contemporary People's Republic of China, should we not find the most immediate sources for its social and political patterns in the experiences of post‐1978 reform and opening (including communications development) under globalization and China's international rise? Maoist patterns must surely have been transmogrified fundamentally even if some of them are still faintly visible."
"5","                        "
"6","DANIEL C. LYNCH"
"7","University of Southern California"
