"","x"
"1","Oversight of the intelligence infrastructure presents unique challenges within a democratic government. The values of transparency and accountability are often in direct conflict with the responsibilities to protect and defend, a dynamic that is magnified by the secret and highly technical nature of intelligence work. Genevieve Lester examines this intersection in When Should State Secrets Stay Secret? Accountability, Democratic Governance, and Intelligence.         "
"2","Lester's study provides detailed historical analysis of how intelligence oversight mechanisms developed within each of the three branches of government, how those mechanisms interact, and what historical conjunctions have driven change. Central to this story is the problem of information asymmetry among the intelligence agencies, other branches of government, and the general public. In the broadest sense, the executive branch creates and controls all intelligence information. Both Congress and the judiciary are charged with oversight of these activities, but that oversight depends on information provided by (and at the discretion of) the executive branch. Lester finds that “each step of mechanism development in all three branches, pivots around rebalancing an asymmetry that will never completely balance due to the specialized tasks requirements, and characteristics of the intelligence services” (p. 31)."
"3","In order to fully investigate the nature of intelligence oversight, Lester develops an analytical framework that distinguishes between external and internal accountability. Characteristics of external accountability include knowledge conditions, autonomy, organizational complexity, temporality, and transparency. Each of these conditions sheds light on the struggles of both the legislature and the judiciary to exercise oversight of intelligence. But even this disaggregated analysis finds the information asymmetry almost insurmountable."
"4","Lester finds that “the development of oversight mechanisms is an attempt on the part of the legislature to rebalance the asymmetry, while the executive branch works to keep the informational tilt in its favor” (p. 105). Such external oversight remains weak because the executive branch has continuous control of the information throughout the process of developing intelligence activities. Meanwhile, the other branches rely on executive information sharing and can generally conduct oversight only after the fact."
"5","Lester then analyzes the characteristics of internal accountability, including hierarchical authority, organizational complexity, bureaucratic process, legality, recourse, and internal autonomy. She notes the inherent tension within the intelligence community's operational mandate to break foreign laws while adhering to domestic law. But Lester finds the criterion of internal autonomy to be the most significant in terms of true internal accountability. The statutory inspectors general (IGs) are an internal oversight mechanism essentially independent from their parent organizations. The position of IG is unique in the way it overlaps the traditionally distinct internal/external mechanisms. The role is internal to the agency (and thus part of the hierarchy) but external in terms of its reporting responsibilities and freedom from internal sanction."
"6","This is the role that Lester finds the most likely vehicle for meaningful oversight. IGs are members of the intelligence community and thus solve the problem of information asymmetry. However, she notes, a strong internal culture can diminish the efficacy of IG oversight by exploiting the trade‐off between internal legitimacy and external validity. In order for this process to function efficiently, the position must be legitimized within the agencies, which often perceive the IGs as unwelcome interlopers."
"7","Lester's analytical framework is an excellent addition to the growing body of research on intelligence. Her conclusion that “even after decades of development, oversight is still heavily dependent on executive acquiescence in the sharing of information” (p. 209) is as unsurprising as it is profound. The last decade has brought significant changes to the organization and resources of the intelligence community. But even as some activities have spilled into the domestic sphere, the oversight mechanisms have not adapted to the changing threats, new technologies, and emerging privacy norms."
"8","            "
"9","BRIANA R. MORGAN"
"10","Georgetown University"
