"","x"
"1","In the aftermath of the Arab Spring, Islamists have become the rising power in several new electoral regimes. Observers in the West and even in Arab countries have tried to understand the ideology, organization, and potential impact of Islamists, especially parties affiliated with the influential Muslim Brothers. Nathan Brown, a leading expert on this issue, answers many of the questions around Muslim Brothers with his objective, nuanced, and informative book. Based on in‐depth interviews and a comprehensive literature review, the book examines Muslim Brotherhood–type parties in Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, and Palestine."
"2","Brown's implicit theoretical angle focuses on the opportunity structures of these parties, particularly the semi‐authoritarian regimes that allow elections that are neither free nor fair. Thus, electoral victory was not an option for Islamist parties in these four countries, except Palestine in 2006. With some level of openings toward freedom of speech and association, semi‐authoritarian regimes allowed elections while pursuing arbitrary policies to maintain the status quo, rather than sincerely initiating a long‐term plan of democratization."
"3","According to Brown, elections under even this semi‐authoritarian structure provided some opportunities to Islamists. By running in elections, their parties became more transparent, reached out to women as potential activists and voters, and learned how to form alliances with non‐Islamist actors. The organizational structure of the Muslim Brothers was particularly convenient for taking advantage of semi‐authoritarian regimes. Since the time of the founder, Hassan Al‐Banna, who said, “O Brothers: You are not a charitable society nor a political party nor a body established for the purposes of limited goals” (p. 59), the Muslim Brothers have combined social movements with political parties. This has put them in a better position than mere political parties, which did not organize constituency through social service and could be eliminated by a simple official closure, and solely social movements, which did not directly engage with elections."
"4","Brown sees similarities between Christian Democrats and Islamists. Like Christian Democrats' contributions to democratization in semi‐democratic systems of nineteenth‐century Europe, Islamists made contributions to democratization in their countries. Islamists opened new public spaces for discussion on common issues, especially through their religious, educational, and health associations. They “have often brought members of the middle class, young professionals, students, and societal leaders into public deliberation” (p. 220). Moreover, they have promoted a gentle, rational, and disciplined speaking style with opponents in public discussion."
"5","Brown's book is optimistic about the future political progress of Muslim Brothers parties in Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, and Palestine, while defining them as “flexible, adaptable, and resilient. Their ideologies are strongly developed but so vaguely defined that they allow leaders considerable tactical and even strategic flexibility” (p. 125). The key issue here is their “capacity to learn.” These Islamists “tend to be enormously reflective: they review their performance, document their efforts and their effectiveness, and continuously study themselves” (p. 229). As a result, they rejected the extreme positions of seizing the state (leaving it to radicals) and retreating from society (leaving it to Salafis). Nevertheless, Islamists “have only begun grappling with the possibilities raised by the third path of civil religion,” that is, accepting diversity of religious and political views (p. 226). Brown gives examples about Islamists' evolution not by removing their ideology but by transforming it. In an interview with a reform‐minded Islamist, he “asked whether the movement was deemphasizing the shari‘a in favor of political reform and economic issues. His response both times was, ‘But this is shari‘a!”’ (p. 191).         "
"6","My main concern about this influential book is its timing. Its publication coincided with major changes in the cases examined. In Egypt, the electoral victory is now a reality for the Muslim Brothers, let alone an option. Even in Kuwait and Jordan, the oppositions have strongly forced the semi‐authoritarian regimes to transform. Thus, some aspects of the book may seem historical to certain readers who follow rapidly changing Arab politics on an almost‐daily basis. Nonetheless, Brown's book still captures the main dynamics of Arab politics today, and it serves as a guideline to predict the future of Arab Islamists. This theoretically deep, empirically rich, and politically insightful book is a must‐read for students of Middle East politics."
"7","                        "
"8","Ahmet T. Kuru"
"9","Brookings Doha Center and San Diego State University"
