"","x"
"1","The decades‐long process of European integration is often considered to be an elite‐driven project. Politicians, policy experts, and bureaucrats have been at the forefront in prodding European states to cooperate and coordinate on an ever‐growing list of policy issues, while the public tends to be passive participants in this process. Mai'a K. Davis Cross has written a book which confirms that within in the policy field of security, the European Union is indeed an elite‐driven project. Cross studies security integration through the lens of epistemic communities or, in other words, groups of experts in Brussels who interact and leverage their knowledge in the common pursuit of furthering European Union (EU) integration. Through an impressive list of interviews with EU ambassadors, military personnel, and committee representatives, Cross details how these communities of like‐minded experts are able to exercise collective agency in swaying EU internal and external security policies towards enhanced cooperation. This is a story of elites actively promoting and creating EU‐level integration within the security sector."
"2","Cross investigates the question of what drives EU security integration by discussing the theory of epistemic communities, reviewing the history of increasing security cooperation in Europe, and assessing the composition of epistemic communities and their impact on EU policy through case studies of various EU working committees such as the Committee of Permanent Representatives, the Political and Security Committee, the EU Military Committee, and the Civilian Crisis Management Committee. The strength of the book is undoubtedly its case studies, which are meticulous accounts of how European Union elites interact on a daily basis and how they generate a collective norm that favors greater EU cooperation. The case studies are well structured and include evaluation criteria for determining the relative strength of each epistemic community. These evaluation criteria—training and education, professional norms, meeting frequency, common culture, and persuasiveness on home governments—are useful comparative tools and reveal much about the modus operandi of each epistemic community. For example, Cross discovers a curious dynamic in which government ambassadors and representatives sent to Brussels are socialized into holding collective norms, practices, and perspectives and ultimately seek to convince their home governments of the wisdom of pro‐integration security policies. She also uncovers that national governments often defer negotiating positions and policy decisions to their various committee representatives in Brussels because of their insider knowledge of EU debates and initiatives."
"3","The author is to be commended for focusing on an often‐overlooked aspect of EU policymaking: how groups of individuals who have specialized knowledge can impact the European integration process. All too often, scholars fixate on policymaking as heads of state negotiations or as the interaction between politicians and their domestic constituencies. Doing so ignores the people who frequently craft EU policy, middle to upper‐level Brussels‐based elites who hold an advantage in expertise and subscribe to collective policy goals. Despite the book's numerous insights into the day‐to‐day policymaking dynamic, the author falls short in gauging the degree of impact that these epistemic communities have in comparison with other actors such as EU commissioners, lobby groups, and heads of state. Epistemic communities undoubtedly have influence, but the failure to put these knowledge‐based groups into context leaves the reader with an exaggerated impression of their impact on the EU's policymaking process. Although the book does not adequately evaluate the relative influence of all actors involved in EU security integration, it is valuable as a rare glimpse into the EU's byzantine bureaucracy and technocratic operating culture."
"4","                        "
"5","ANDREW T. WOLFF"
"6","Dickinson College"
