"","x"
"1","The topic of how states should and do deal with actors like terrorists, murderous dictators, and leaders of lawless guerrilla movements who are usually considered beyond the pale is important for both scholars and policymakers. The same is true for the role of mediators in a range of conflicts. These subjects are not only ethically challenging, but pose analytical and methodological challenges. Unfortunately, the book under review does not rise to them. Although the histories of some of the cases are useful, the book is rambling, analytically weak, thinly researched, and filled with errors. The first sign that the book is superficial comes in the preface when the author asserts that the breakdown of the cease‐fire in Gaza at the end of 2008 “could have been prevented if the United States had been open to dialogue with the enemy and willing to facilitate communication between the parties” (pp. xi–xii). Neither there nor in the rest of the book does Paul J. Zwier go beyond the assertions to provide evidence or a serious argument. It is not as though there were no communication between Israel and Hamas. What, exactly, was any mediator supposed to do? What would be the role of various forms of power in any such effort? The literature has at least discussed these questions, if not answered them. Zwier does not seem to realize that they need to be addressed."
"2","To the extent that the book has a theme, it is that mediation, especially by the United States, can be very valuable if it is based on a principled pragmatic approach. The problems here are very great, however. To start with, Zwier never explains why it should be the United States that serves as a mediator in many conflicts. The United States is, of course, very powerful, but what needs discussion is whether and when this makes it a valuable mediator."
"3","The rest of the discussion is similarly superficial. At times Zwier talks about a neutral mediator and at times about a principled one. Are these the same? What would it mean to be a neutral mediator in dealing with a mass murderer? The principles that Zwier thinks that a mediator should serve include “Peace First, Lowest Cost, Easiest to Execute…” and finally, “Most Sustainable (legitimate and just) Result” (p. 50). These indeed do have an element of pragmatism, but have real problems that the author never faces. Most obviously, there are conflicts among these. Achieving peace quickly may require the sacrifice of many other values, most obviously justice. It would also be nice to believe, as Zwier does, that “resistance to peace… exposes whether someone is acting in a representative capacity or simply out of self‐interest” (p. 55), but this easy way out of a hard problem is possible only because the author assumes that the result of conflict resolution should or needs to be democratic rule. Most of us would like all countries to be democratic, but making this part of mediation is as dangerous a prescription as it has been as a basis for American foreign policy. The reader might want to suspend judgment about the utility of this framework to see how it is applied in the cases. But it appears only sporadically. It is symptomatic that although the book is long, the concluding chapter is only seven pages."
"4","The book also is filled with errors: The reader will learn, for example, that the Japanese Emperor committed suicide after World War II (p. 8), that the United States mediated the dispute between North and South Korea (p. 46), that “North Korea was born out of a war with the United States” (p. 145), and that Kim Il‐sung was Kim Jong‐en's father (p. 153)."
"5","I am surprised to see this book published by Cambridge University Press. At least the damage to its reputation will be limited by the fact that, at the price of $120, readership is likely to be limited."
"6","                        "
"7","ROBERT JERVIS"
"8","Columbia University"
