"","x"
"1","Social scientists have long grappled with the question of why social movements succeed or fail and what role, if any, aligning themselves with formal political entities plays in their success or demise. After more than 10 years of in‐depth research, Michael T. Heaney and Fabio Rojas provide a theoretically and empirically sound and intriguing examination of the relationship between social movements and political parties by providing their conceptualization of a “party in the street,” which is a fresh way of understanding the intermingling between contentious and formal politics. This new theoretical framework stresses the multiple identities of individual actors in mediating the interaction between partisan and social movement identities."
"2","The central focus of Heaney and Rojas's study is the antiwar movement against the U.S. invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan following the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States. The authors consider why the antiwar movement crumbled right after the Democratic midterm election victories in 2006 and before the election of President Barack Obama in 2008. Their use of both quantitative and qualitative methods is impressive, including survey data, interviews, content analysis, participant observation, ethnography, and regression analysis. Their utilization of this broad scope of methods provides a strong theoretical contribution to the study of social movements by explaining how the micro‐level attitudes and behaviors of individual actors and organization actors impact macro‐level patterns of broader party and collective behavior dynamics as the two layers interface with one another."
"3","The authors note that in terms of foreign policy regarding war and national security, there was no verifiable difference between the Republican and Democratic administrations aside from the rhetoric leading up to the 2008 presidential election. Although the Democrats were purportedly supportive of the antiwar protesters and critical of the George W. Bush administration's hawkish strategy about war following September 11, once in office, they opted for another strategy. The nature of the antiwar Democratic alliance led to its decline in 2007. Thus, the authors' conclusion is that Democrats were more interested in defeating Republicans than in ending the war and that antiwar protesters stopped supporting the movement thinking that they had gained victory by formal representation in government."
"4","What Heaney and Rojas glean from their survey and interview data responses is that the enemy (the Republican Party, not necessarily foreign policy related to the invasions) was removed, and therefore street protest no longer seemed necessary. In other words, the Democratic Party was perceived by many as part and parcel of the antiwar movement. Furthermore, activists who self‐identified as Democrats believed Obama's campaign promise to withdraw from Iraq, and so they did not feel compelled to continue protesting in the streets. Therefore, the authors' findings suggest that when parties are in conflict, partisan identification is stronger and longer lasting than movement identification, which enhances the advantaged status of parties over social movements."
"5","Overall, this is an extremely well‐researched overview of the collapse of the antiwar movement in the United States. It provides a convincing analysis of the pros and cons of individual activists and organizations working with, or aligning themselves too closely with, those in formal politics and perhaps naively having too much trust in political parties by ceasing to press for demands once representatives with whom they had aligned were in office. This book is well suited for students at both the undergraduate and graduate levels who are interested in political science, sociology, and peace studies."
"6","                        "
"7","VICTORIA CARTY"
"8","Chapman University"
