"","x"
"1","Cybelle Fox provides a fascinating comparative analysis of welfare policies as they evolved from the Progressive Era through the New Deal in the United States. Fox considers the fates of three groups—European immigrants, African Americans, and Mexicans and Mexican Americans—as those who defined and implemented relief policies for the poor and aged and grappled with tensions over race, labor concerns, and politics. She finds that contrary to the prevailing contemporary belief that the immigrant ancestors of white Americans helped each other privately and did not rely on public assistance to get ahead, European immigrants received a variety of forms of assistance distributed through both public and private institutions, forms of assistance available at best in only limited ways to the other two groups. She also shows that the experience of Mexicans and Mexican Americans did not track the experience of either African Americans or that of European immigrants. For each of these groups, their racialized identities, their place in the labor markets in which they were regionally and occupationally concentrated, and their level of political incorporation shaped how private, state, and federal relief programs addressed (or did not address) their needs."
"2","While Fox's analysis is national in scope, she narrates through a regional lens, acknowledging the concentrations of European immigrants in the Northeast and Midwest, African Americans in the South, and Mexicans and Mexican Americans in the Southwest. Because the perceived problems of these populations had significant local impacts, she provides more‐detailed local analysis of the politics of welfare policy in a few large cities, most notably New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles. Throughout the book, her analysis seamlessly addresses policy adoption and implementation through multiple governmental levels."
"3","Fox's comparison of these groups unsurprisingly shows that race mattered in how these policies were conceived and implemented. Her story, however, is more‐nuanced because of her attention to how marginal groups fit into the context of labor and the extent to which they were able to leverage some political incorporation. European immigrants received more‐sympathetic attention from welfare agencies, both public and private, not simply because they were moving toward construction as white, but also because they were crucial laborers in Northern and Midwestern industrial economies and because political machines sought to incorporate them as cogs."
"4","The book is valuable for scholars of political development and race and politics, but it also provides a fascinating account of how states can implement important agendas through partnership with, and at times direction by, non‐state actors. In Fox's view, social workers, primarily private volunteer aid providers, were critical not only in the administration of welfare policy but also in the development of specific policies and in the framing of the various groups being considered for receipt of benefits. Fox shows how Northeastern and Midwestern social workers helping European immigrants constructed them as worthy potential contributors to the state, while California's cohort presented Mexicans and Mexican Americans as shiftless, lacking in ambition, and in need of punitive monitoring. She identifies this process, dating back to the Progressive Era, as the source of persistent and damaging stereotypes of Latinos and Latinas. These workers' engagement with the eugenics movement provided a particularly toxic environment for policy development."
"5","Three Worlds leaves some important questions unanswered. Fox wisely chose to limit her analysis to three groups, but multiracial California suggests that additional comparative leverage could be gained on these issues by considering Asian Americans and Filipinos. What were the politics concerning these groups around the issues of deportation and repatriation in the 1920s and 1930s, and how did they shape the capacity of these groups to achieve political incorporation (see, for example, Mae Ngai, Impossible Subjects: Illegal Aliens and the Making of Modern America)? Likewise, while the analysis of European immigrants is compelling, can any leverage be gained by considering Jewish immigrants as a distinct case (see, for example, Karen Brodkin, How Jews Became White Folks and What That Says about Race in America)? Fox also provides some intriguing hints about how New Deal politics led to the increased salience of citizenship in the politics of relief provision, a topic well worth more analytical energy.         "
"6","These questions, however, should be taken as a marker of the book's success. Fox's work opens up the inquiry, both laying solid ground for her findings and showing why they matter and why their implications should be pursued. Scholars in the areas of migration, American political development, race and politics, and policy history can all benefit from encountering and engaging with this fine book."
"7","                        "
"8","JULIE NOVKOV"
"9","University at Albany, SUNY"
