"","x"
"1","James Farwell wrote this book to help U.S. policy and decision makers, action officers, and those who deal with communication to successfully inform and influence audiences. Defining strategic communication as “the use of words, actions, images, or symbols to influence the attitudes and opinions of target audiences to shape their behavior in order to advance interests or policies, or to achieve objectives” (pp. xvii–xix), the book should appeal to its targeted readers. Farwell provides a combination of examples, anecdotes, and commentary from noted experts, as well as advice drawn from his experiences as a defense consultant. He should be commended for bringing together in this volume an impressive array of historical, contemporary, foreign, and domestic examples of strategic communication."
"2","As the subtitle of the book states, Farwell views strategic communication as an “art.” Readers interested in the topic, yet looking to avoid social‐scientific jargon, will be pleased. Part I usefully outlines the similarities and differences among psychological operations, propaganda, public affairs, and public diplomacy. This section also provides the inside story of strategic communication's recent institutional history—itself a valuable contribution. Part II details the interconnections among words, images and symbols, and deeds. Part III addresses issues of authoritarianism and leadership, as well as underscoring the need for communicators to establish measurable objectives and effective strategies and tactics. Along these lines, Part IV describes how strategic communicators have successfully weaponized television and radio to serve their interests. Farwell concludes in Part V that the effectiveness of the U.S. government's strategic communication efforts in national security and foreign affairs can be improved by centralizing control within the White House, increasing financial and institutional resources dedicated to its development, and rethinking the definitions of and distinctions among its various sub‐fields. He also recommends improved training, efficiency, measurement, and coordination."
"3","The book's main strength is also its main weakness. Its “anecdotal technique” (p. xv) potentially could help policy and decision makers contextualize their strategic communication activities; however, the selection of examples, and Farwell's conventional interpretation of them, mostly serves status quo interests and reinforces current institutional practices. While the chosen examples are interesting, they do not add up to a predictive or normative theory of strategic communication, and, as a result, readers may be left wondering whether Farwell's assertions and “core precepts” (p. 144) are sufficiently supported by evidence. The book aims to help U.S. government and military communicators “ask hard questions about when, where, and how they can apply the principles of strategic communication to inform and influence audiences to achieve defined objectives” (p. xxi). The book may achieve its aim, but its usefulness for scholars is diminished by Farwell's reluctance to deeply engage vexing questions concerning the ontological and epistemological status of truth (despite occasional nods to indeterminacy). The book often glosses over the moral, ethical, and political considerations undergirding preferred versions of truth and their role in the development of objectives. Some audiences, of course, deem the U.S. government's foreign policy objectives illegitimate, and this situation may explain America's persistently negative image abroad better than any analysis of misguided strategic communication efforts. In sum, U.S. government and military readers may benefit from Farwell's examples, anecdotes, and advice, but they would also do well to consider other theoretical and critical perspectives that better challenge underlying assumptions."
"4","                        "
"5","HAMILTON BEAN"
"6","University of Colorado Denver"
