"","x"
"1","Sumit Ganguly's book Conflict Unending (2001) traced Indo‐Pakistani security relations from the dissolution of British India and independence in 1947 through the 1999 Kargil War. In his new book, Deadly Impasse: Indo‐Pakistani Relations at the Dawn of a New Century, Ganguly takes up where he left off, offering a detailed history of the two countries’ security relations from Kargil to the present day. The book is not simply an empirical account, however; Ganguly uses it to make a theoretical point about the causes of the Indo‐Pakistani rivalry.         "
"2","Scholars and commentators generally characterize conflict between India and Pakistan, including Pakistan's efforts to seize Indian Kashmir, as a security competition. Packed into that label is the assumption that the motive underlying Pakistani efforts to upset South Asia's territorial status quo is Pakistan's desire to make itself safer. The implications of this assumption are significant. First, it means that Pakistani behavior is susceptible to external influence; if India changes its behavior, it can expect that Pakistan will do the same. Second, it means that the optimal Indian policy would be one of reassurance. India would be able positively to influence Pakistan not through the use of threats or coercion but rather by assuaging its security concerns."
"3","This security‐based logic is appealing for two reasons. First, Pakistan has suffered from significant insecurity since its founding. Its piecemeal geography and smaller population, its limited share of Indian resources at the time of Partition, and its tenuous political foundations have always put it at a disadvantage to India. Pakistani leaders have had to devote a great deal of energy simply to ensuring that that their country could survive, particularly during its early years. This acute sense of insecurity goes a long way toward explaining why Pakistan became a praetorian state. Second, the field of international relations often privileges security‐based explanations for conflict, characterizing states as status quo security seekers motivated primarily by a desire for survival rather than by ideational or philosophical preferences."
"4","As Ganguly points out in this book, however, security‐centric explanations do not always accurately capture reality. States may not have status quo preferences and insecurity may not explain their violent behavior. Rather, states may be “greedy,” seeking goals unrelated to security, such as honor, wealth, or outcomes based on normative or religious preferences. In these cases, efforts to encourage less disruptive behavior by assuaging states’ security concerns may be ineffective, and even counterproductive, failing to address aggressors’ true motives and potentially emboldening them further."
"5","This delineation between security‐seeking and greedy states is not new. For example, Charles Glaser discussed it at length from a theoretical perspective, and Christine Fair drew heavily on it in her recent study of the Pakistan Army. Ganguly's contribution lies in his ability to show how greedy preferences have driven revisionist Pakistani behavior and affected Indo‐Pakistani relations during the critical period in the two countries’ history since the turn of the twenty‐first century."
"6","The book brims with historical detail—so much so that empirical richness can at times threaten to obscure the theoretical argument. Nonetheless, Ganguly is generally able to maintain a balance between the two and keep his larger point in focus. The implications of his analysis are sobering. Even the most enlightened efforts to discourage Pakistani revisionism and improve the Indo‐Pakistani security dynamic are unlikely to succeed unless Pakistan abandons its greedy preferences. Given that Pakistan has held these preferences for the nearly 70 years since its founding, there is little reason to expect that this will occur any time soon."
"7","                        "
"8","PAUL KAPUR"
"9","Naval Postgraduate School"
