"","x"
"1","In this book, Melanie Jean Springer contends that U.S. voter turnout should be understood in the context of federalism with state‐level election laws that influence participation rates. She demonstrates in How the States Shaped the Nation that the effects of restrictive voting laws are relatively uniform, whereas the effects of expansive laws are not. Her work has important implications for electoral reform efforts designed to stimulate voter turnout.         "
"2","When compared with other democracies, average national turnout in the United States is notoriously low. However, Springer makes the case in Part I of the book that this is an overly simplified measure; voter turnout is not as waning as the national average would have one believe. When disaggregated by state and region, turnout in presidential and nonpresidential years is usually above the national average in the Midwest, West, and Northeast, while it is well below average in the South. This section also includes a well‐written comprehensive history of expansive and restrictive voting laws during the time period of interest."
"3","The major empirical analyses are found in Part II of the book. Springer estimates a series of cross‐sectional time‐series analyses in Chapter 5 to test the effects of various electoral institutions on voter turnout across states beyond the effects of electoral competitiveness and demographic makeup. The analyses reveal striking results. Restrictive laws such as poll taxes and literacy tests have more consistent effects on depressing turnout, while expansive reforms intended to increase turnout such as universal mail‐in registration and motor voter registration have inconsistent, even underwhelming, effects. Only Election Day registration has a positive, although varied, effect on turnout. However, it is unclear whether Election Day registration would have a positive effect in Southern states, as this policy was not yet available in that region during the time period of interest."
"4","Springer takes the analyses one step further in Chapters 6 and 7 through a case study approach. First, she investigates why turnout is so consistently high in Midwestern states. Many of these states have a history of expansive laws, but no clear pattern emerges that leads to a definitive conclusion about which laws or combination of laws lead to higher turnout rates. Springer speculates that state political culture and social capital, beyond institutional factors, may play a role. She raises another important question about whether a history of restrictive laws helps foster a culture of nonparticipation that is difficult to overcome, even after legal expansion (for example, in the South)."
"5","My central critique of the book is that it raises additional questions that are left unanswered, although Springer readily acknowledges this point. What explains such high and consistent turnout rates in states such as Illinois, Indiana, and Minnesota? What factors lead to higher turnout in some states and not others, even within the same region? It would be nice to see in‐depth analyses on these or similar states to gain a better understanding of public attitudes toward voting and efficacy. Although they are admittedly difficult to measure, I also wonder whether more sophisticated voter mobilization efforts are implemented in some states relative to others. However, such analyses would certainly be a large undertaking and well beyond the scope of this book."
"6","Springer's work provides a thorough assessment of voting laws and makes the compelling case that voter turnout needs to be understood within the institutional context in which it occurs. Her analyses (and appendices) are comprehensive and add extensively to what we know about turnout in the United States. This is an extremely useful book that I would recommend to scholars of voting behavior, proponents of electoral reform, and general readers alike."
"7","                        "
"8","JENNY L. HOLLAND"
"9","Ohio Wesleyan University"
