"","x"
"1","Emotions undeniably play a central role in world politics. Fear is at the heart of realism, driving security dilemmas. Trust is typically required for cooperation in the liberal international order. Overconfidence leads to suboptimal group decision making. And emotional contagion helps make sense of identity formation and its changing nature in constructivism. Despite featuring prominently in theories of international relations, the study of emotions themselves has been historically marginalized in the field, for a variety of reasons. One reason for this lack of specific engagement with emotions is the deep‐rooted belief commonly found in the first wave of emotions research that, as Andrew A.G. Ross puts it, emotions are “periodic aberrations from some baseline of ‘rational' competency” (p. 151). This book, by theorizing emotions in a serious, deep, and multidisciplinary way, where rationality is not an enemy, not only provides a corrective to this mistaken duality in which emotions and rationality are set apart and never the twain shall meet, but also it sets forth a fresh account of emotions that will likely shape the future of emotions, and affect research in international relations."
"2","At the center of the theory is the notion of “circulation of affect.” “A circulation of affect is a conscious or unconscious transmission of emotion within a social environment” (p. 21). Emotions are therefore properties that affect individuals but also are shared among and between them. Rather than thinking about emotions as private experiences, as many conceptualizations do, Ross encourages us to think about emotions as contagious and creative forces that include groups. Individuals both “soak up and replicate the affective expressions around us” (p. 23), and emotion is still experienced in the body, but the move to show how emotions operate across time and space suggests that emotions are not just about individuals. In this way, Ross is able to successfully navigate a core problem posed to anyone invoking psychology in international relations, the levels of analysis issue and problem of aggregation."
"3","One of the most impressive aspects of Ross's book is the careful tracing of circulation of affect in particular conflicts. The chapter on “the affective politics of terror” (p. 67) is required reading for anyone who wants to understand the collective response by the United States to the September 11 attacks. Ross shows how fear, as a singular emotional category, does not capture the complexity of that response but rather “stand[s] in for an array of intersecting and reciprocally amplifying emotions” (p. 91). This is where Ross's account is particularly useful. By moving “beyond fear,” Ross is able to demonstrate that emotional tropes do not do justice to the complex and divergent reactions within U.S. society. To take one example, Ross shows how the fear that occurred after September 11 was predicated on prior trust and security, which then brushed up against anger and frustration, which themselves were products of days of collective social public protest. The subsequent chapters on ethnic conflict and justice are similarly insightful."
"4","At the end of the day, emotions are messy. It is tempting for scholars to simplify the complexity, and in many cases, that move may be justified. The highlight of Ross's contribution, however, is that he resists that temptation and engages with multidisciplinary literatures that continue to refine, at a very deep level, our understanding of emotions. By invoking neuroscience, microsociology, and psychological approaches, Ross provides an incredibly synthetic and readable account of an important variable of political behavior that often resists simplification. This is an important book that may well be viewed as pathbreaking in an important second wave of emotions research in international relations."
"5","                        "
"6","MARCUS HOLMES"
"7","College of William and Mary"
