"","x"
"1","China's meteoric rise as an economic powerhouse has many China watchers wondering about its potential for political reform. Will China democratize? If so, how and when? Joseph Fewsmith warns against such optimistic hopes for political reform by carefully analyzing several key examples of political experimentation in recent years, none of which have become permanently institutionalized. According to Fewsmith, the greatest challenge to political liberalization lies in the contradiction between the Communist Party's centralized control over cadres and efforts to monitor the behavior of local officials. So long as power, including the right to promote, remains concentrated in the hands of a few members of the Party, any attempts to draw a clear line between state and society will produce limited results."
"2","The real gems in this volume are the case studies that Fewsmith uses to show why political reform remains stunted, especially at the local levels. Fewsmith draws on existing research and theories to locate some of the most likely places in which to find the seeds of political reform in China. Sichuan province, a relatively poor area in the southwest, saw frequent clashes between impoverished peasants and local cadres over taxes and land requisitions. Limited economic growth made room for political innovation, and the development of “inner‐party democracy” allowed for diverse opinions within the Party and even from outside the Party. However, even in Sichuan, where the economic stakes were low, the Party's recurring fears of social instability ultimately placed power back in the hands of the Party organization."
"3","Wenzhou, a wealthy area known for its well‐established private businesses, was also a candidate for political reform. It was a probable hotbed for business associations and other forms of civil society that could contribute to the emergence of a “deliberative democracy.” Yet Fewsmith finds no signs of the type of pressure groups that would organize to demand less corruption or better policies from the government. Instead, Wenzhou's entrepreneurs, like Chinese entrepreneurs elsewhere, still prefer to cultivate private relations and tolerate distortions in public policy in order to pursue short‐term profits and political protection."
"4","Perhaps the best candidate for political reforms was Wenling, which became famous for its experimentation with participatory budgeting. Wenling's reforms brought together the major stakeholders, including an elite group of wealthy entrepreneurs, open‐minded local leaders, and even the local Organizational Bureau. Yet even in this exceptional case of interest alignment, Fewsmith sees no sign of “inner‐party democracy.” Wenling's personnel decisions remain firmly in the hands of the Party elite, and participatory budgeting can only be labeled “consultative authoritarianism.”"
"5","Abundant evidence suggests that the Party is increasingly weary of growing social tensions such as mass protests and rampant corruption. Such disruptions could be mitigated by more‐inclusive political reforms, but the Party's current tool of choice appear to be a classic carrot‐and‐stick combination of social services and policing. As tensions mount and as communication technologies become ever‐more‐sophisticated, these means of control have become extremely costly and often ineffective, putting even further pressures on the state to maintain high levels of economic growth and calling into question its authority and legitimacy. At the same time, the Party continues to make efforts to blur the lines between state and society, effectively putting political reforms further into the future. By clearly presenting both the logic and the limits of political reforms in China, Fewsmith's thoughtful research will force scholars to rethink the causal linkages between economic growth and political liberalization."
"6","                        "
"7","KAY SHIMIZU"
"8","Columbia University"
