"","x"
"1","This thoughtful study, which centers primarily on the Israel–Egypt relationship, offers a convincing response to the literature on conventional deterrence. The book challenges existing scholarship for its singular and static focus on the balance of interest, balance of capabilities, or behavioral reputations as sources of deterrence stability. Elli Lieberman argues that current thinking about deterrence is deficient in multiple respects. First, it is overly indebted to thinking about nuclear deterrence. In nuclear deterrence, the breakdown in stability is where the story ends: presumably, all is lost should a nuclear war occur. In conventional deterrence, war and instability can contribute to stability. Second, it is insufficiently appreciative of institutional variables. Although scholars often compare the wartime behavior (intervention choices, strategies, and adeptness) of authoritarian states and democracies, Lieberman maintains that key regime‐based differences extend to capability evaluation and, specifically, that authoritarian systems are prone to biased (seemingly optimistic) assessments of their relative capabilities. Third, it focuses on some narrow subset of critical explanatory variables. Lieberman establishes that different explanations apply at different points in a conflict and that some combination of the balance of interests, perceptions of the capability balance, and reputations for action can explain deterrence outcomes. Fourth, and most importantly, it fails to view relationships in temporal perspective. By focusing on individual cases of deterrence rather than examining enduring rivalries longitudinally, scholars tend to miss instances in which violence might have occurred but for deterrence, and instances in which deterrence leads nations to change their goals despite continuing violence. They also ignore learning that occurs within relationships. Lieberman argues that “internalized deterrence” (p. xiii) results when one nation comes to appreciate the capabilities of another through conflict. Just as Egypt's leaders learned, in 1967, that Israeli mobility, air power, tactics, and training would overwhelm any Egyptian numerical advantage, Israel's leaders learned, in 1973, that surface‐to‐air and anti‐tank missiles—in pursuance of limited political objectives—negated prior Israeli military advantages."
"2","The book is not without deficiencies. It assesses alternative explanations for the evidence so methodically that the analysis sometimes impedes the flow of the presentation; and it presents and assesses theories individually though establishing empirically that they work in some explanatory combination. It also concludes, without necessary support, that nations become more “rational” through experience and fails then to consider that experience offers lessons to even non‐rational actors. Indeed, Lieberman is a bit vague on exactly where his explanation lies on a rational/non‐rational continuum. Statements like “while the process of teaching is not rational, the outcome, after a long process of conditioning desired behavior, is rational” (p. 221) are not friends of clarity. When Lieberman hedges a bit with references to actors that “start behaving as if they were rational,” to an outcome that “resembles rationality at work” (p. 221), or to acting due to “memories of past outcomes” (p. 5), he poses the question of whether the actors exhibit psychological bias. Lieberman might have reached that very conclusion had he focused less on motivated bias and more on cognitive bias, the blocking and filtering of information until overwhelming evidence brings attitudinal change."
"3","Notwithstanding these limitations, this well‐written, nicely organized, and judiciously argued book brings insights to an important subject. Its lasting relevance is clear in the short penultimate chapter that explores the deterrence relationship that appears to have emerged between Israel and Hezbollah after their 2006 confrontation in Lebanon."
"4","                        "
"5","JAMES H. LEBOVIC"
"6","The George Washington University"
