"","x"
"1","David Sehat has written a breezy book about how politicians since the George Washington administration have invoked the Founders and the Constitution to advance their policies. Sehat claims that Thomas Jefferson was the first to do so, and thus the title of the book—Jefferson established the rule that any policy must be associated with and justified by the Founders. Sehat summarizes his principal findings in these sentences: “Jefferson spoke of the Founders as supporters of an agrarian ideal of liberty. Calhoun made them into promoters of states’ rights. Jackson used them to push political democracy. Others have gone in different directions, using the Founders for national economic development (Clay and Webster), slavery's restriction (Lincoln), popular sovereignty (Douglas), business rights (American Liberty League), economic equality (Roosevelt), black civil rights (King), tax cuts and antigovernment retrenchment (Reagan), political moderation (Obama), and the revolutionary power of the people (the Tea Party)” (p. 242)."
"2","Yet surprisingly, Sehat never really discusses the Founders and their views, and he says even less about the Constitution they drafted. He begins with Washington's inauguration and completely ignores the Constitutional Convention and ratification debates. The Founders and the Constitution are important for him only because they are symbols that have been manipulated by politicians."
"3","In his “Thoughts on Government,” John Adams wrote that “poets read history to collect flowers, not fruits; they attend to fanciful images, not the effects of social institutions.” Sehat, an associate professor of history at Georgia State University, reads history the same way. He is interested in the fanciful images of the Founders as used by politicians, not in the actual effects of our most important social institution, the Constitution the Founders drafted. And he is curiously uncurious about why the Founders and the Constitution continue to hold such sway—why appeals by politicians to them have resonated with the public for more than two centuries."
"4","The flowers he collects from politicians’ invocations of the Founders have thorns. “Founders talk degrades debate. It encourages intellectual dishonesty. It is both easy and destructive. The Founders’ words and thoughts become weapons” (p. 2). Citing the Founders, he insists, “tends to debase the political process. It reinforces ideological warfare. It disguises lack of thought behind a veil of propaganda. It dumbs down debate by ignoring policy trade‐offs and neglecting policy evaluation” (p. 242). Invoking them must come to an end if the liberal agenda Sehat embraces is to be advanced."
"5","At one point, Sehat writes that “even David Broder, a commentator and journalist always careful to conceal his political leanings, gave vent to the common liberal view” (p. 194). Sehat is no David Broder. He makes no effort to conceal his political leanings—especially concerning contemporary politics—and explicitly vents his liberal views. His discussion of Ronald Reagan is condescending and dismissive. He writes, for example, that “although Reagan was not personally bigoted” (p. 162), “careful sublimation of racial animosities into the language of states’ rights and local control was characteristic of his message” (p. 177). The title of his chapter on Reagan is “Nutcase Theories.” He gleefully points out Reagan's large budget deficits but never mentions that they were the price Reagan was willing to pay to bring down the Soviet Union. Even less nuanced is his risible attack on the Tea Party."
"6","Sehat thanks his agent for showing him how to write a trade book “for a public audience” (p. 246). He should have kept to academic history, where some sense of objectivity is still paid lip service. He then might have taken care to avoid making such obvious errors as saying that Abraham Lincoln believed in a living Constitution (p. 111) and asserting that Jefferson rooted “his opinion [to Washington concerning the unconstitutionality of the First Bank Act] in the Tenth Amendment” (p. 9) in a letter written 10 months before the Tenth Amendment was ratified."
"7","                        "
"8","RALPH A. ROSSUM"
"9","Claremont McKenna College"
