"","x"
"1","Civic engagement and democratic practices in the United States are shaped by socioeconomic disparity. Low‐income voters are less likely than their middle‐class neighbors to cast their votes in national, state, and local elections. Minorities are disproportionately under‐represented in school boards, city councils, and other decision‐making bodies. The knowledge gap on civics remains wide between students who attend inner‐city schools and their peers in middle‐class schools. These civic gaps tend to threaten the long‐term wellbeing‐ of a functioning democracy. As U.S. Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan expressed a sense of urgency at a White House forum on democracy in January 2012: “And it is absolutely the case that much needs to be done to reinvigorate and elevate the quality of civic learning in America.”"
"2","In No Citizen Left Behind, Harvard education professor Meira Levinson offers a thoughtful perspective on how public schools can play a key role in addressing the civic gap. While the book is not exactly an action guide to reverse our civic decline, it provides a sound normative, analytical foundation with which school leaders and policy reformers can advance a road map to address these challenges. A central argument is that students should not only learn about citizenship, they should acquire citizenship through guided experiential learning.         "
"3","From Levinson's perspective, action civics is the “gold standard.” In pursuing action civics, students “do civics and behave as citizens by engaging in a cycle of research, action, and reflection about problems” that they connect to “principles of effective civic and especially political action” (p. 224). Among the examples that the book cites are the Mikva Challenge, Hyde Square Task Force, Youth Participatory Action Research (YPAR), and Civics in Action. Levinson also shares her eight years of teaching social studies in Atlanta and Boston to illuminate how action civics enriched student learning in the middle school. As a teaching and learning approach, guided experiential civic education involves a dynamic, virtuous feedback loop. Drawing on their reflections on civic knowledge and project learning, students are motivated to exercise their civic responsibility and to collaborate on political and civic projects. As Levinson passionately reflects on her own teaching in a predominantly African American school in Atlanta, action civics enabled her to connect students with their own history and culture and to strengthen their efficacy, and made “the historical and literary record more inclusive than it had been in the past” (p. 7)."
"4","However, action civics faces implementation challenges when guided experiential civic education has to compete for time and attention with the mandated, standardized curriculum in the current climate of high‐stakes accountability. The quality of semester‐long action civics projects often relies on external partnerships and internal support from teachers and principals. In other words, the civic gap can be perpetuated by the capacity gap in our public schools."
"5","Recognizing schools' limited capacity, many reformers advocate for mandatory civics curriculum and assessment as a practical way to ensure implementation. Levinson takes a different stand. She is concerned that high‐stakes civic assessment will widen the learning gap and that schools with limited capacity will respond to the mandates with less‐meaningful instruction. Instead, she supports an accountability system that resembles the national curriculum in England, where local schools enjoy discretion over 30 to –40 percent of the students' learning time. Civic education can then be collaboratively constructed among educators and stakeholders."
"6","Notwithstanding Levinson's cogent argument, action civics may encounter broader policy challenges. Our decentralized education system suggests the need to build local political support so that local school boards will endorse action civics as part of the district curriculum. Further, faculty in higher education institutions would have to integrate action civics into their teacher education programs. Finally, policy reformers, including those who are supportive of action civics, will want to see reliable data that connect this relatively new instructional approach to student learning outcomes. Clearly, Levinson's book provides a useful perspective in guiding us toward a more complete agenda in policy and research on civic learning."
"7","                        "
"8","KENNETH K. WONG"
"9","Brown University"
