"","x"
"1","The role of digital media in the Arab Spring is one of the most hotly contested subjects in the study of contemporary social movements and revolutions. On the one hand, journalists and onlookers eagerly cast these conflicts as sudden shifts that represent Twitter or Facebook revolutions. On the other hand, many Western activists and social movement scholars bridle at a starring role for digital media, leading to strident denials. Philip N. Howard and Muzammil M. Hussain's study implies that both sets of claims are wrong: digital media played a much longer term role in creating favorable conditions for uprisings, helped to publicize key igniting events, and then facilitated those uprisings and their diffusion; but digital media did not do this alone or as suddenly as some observers have claimed."
"2","The story of the Arab Spring, according to Howard and Hussain, began over a decade ago as Internet access and mobile phones began to diffuse rapidly through North Africa and the Middle East. Although Internet adoption rates vary in the region, the most likely adopters are young, educated, urban citizens, and wealthy elites. The authors argue that these individuals are critical audiences for rulers, making the flourishing of online civil society in countries such as Egypt, Tunisia, and Bahrain far more threatening to elites than many appreciate. Digital media also facilitated the slow development of public opinion separate from the state, particularly through voracious online news production and consumption. Over time, online criticisms of regimes became more public and common, setting the stage for the Arab Spring. Digital media also allowed women and other minorities to enter these political discussions, and, ultimately, the ensuing protests and revolutions as well."
"3","The next part of the book's story is common to many accounts of the Arab Spring: digital media helped to publicize key igniting events (for example, a Tunisian self‐immolation; an Egyptian murder by authorities). The ability to shoot, share, consume, and discuss video of events online helped to document grievances and develop collective grievances and identity. Online coverage helped diffuse protest around the Arab world and garner international support for protesters. The ability to tweet live updates and organize or publicize street protests through Facebook and mobile phones also supported growing revolutionary forces. Although Western activists might wish otherwise, more‐established activist groups were typically not on the front lines, but were drawn into the conflict once others were already at the gates."
"4","Two other important contributions of the book are its discussions of Al Jazeera and of repression. The authors argue that Al Jazeera was a very influential news source before, during, and after the Arab Spring. During unrest, Al Jazeera's incorporation of citizen journalism and social media posts allowed it to go where other networks could not. The authors also clearly describe how the Arab Spring played out against a backdrop of varying levels of repression of online activity, both before and during uprisings, while also acknowledging that repression did not always succeed in dampening regime criticism. The book's closing analysis shows that the absence of significant digital media usage was the common denominator of Arab Spring failures, and the rest of the book demonstrates why."
"5","There are a number of other unique contributions, but there is insufficient space to review them. Overall, I predict that future research will look kindly on the authors' key findings, particularly the book's central claim that digital media were one essential ingredient in larger causal recipes for revolution and democratization."
"6","                        "
"7","JENNIFER EARL"
"8","University of Arizona"
