"","x"
"1","This book is one of the more‐impressive theoretically constructed and empirically executed studies of the aggregation and mobilization of interests available. It is conscientiously grounded in the available research, and the database, most of it self‐generated, provides comprehensiveness in relation to the universe studied, public advocacy groups in Washington, DC. This allows for an intensity of analysis that results in an original, well‐executed, and significant contribution to our understanding. The focus is not on all forms or types of organized interests; nor, of course, does it deal with unorganized, and—it can be assumed—under‐represented policy communities. The study is targeted at an academic readership. Author Matt Grossman claims that the research ranks among the more‐productive and significant undertakings in the field. It would be difficult to dispute such a claim, although caution should be applied as to the transferability of its conclusions to private sector organizations."
"2","In Grossman's definition of public interest associations, constituents can vary along a series of dimensions, including the nature of their identity, from ethnic to economic to religious or political. Rather than approaching these as distinctive subgroups with potentially competing claims on the state, the author conceptualized them as sharing a relationship in one interrelated community of interests amenable to universally applicable standards of judgment and behavior."
"3","Grossman found the traditional conceptual approaches to such a research undertaking of limited utility. Consequently, he develops and employs a theoretical perspective that he labels “Behavioral Pluralism.” It is a blending of behavioral applications, especially as found in the writings of David Truman, and what he refers to as institutionalized (i.e., structural) pluralism. It is his contention that “advocacy organizations represent the distinct interests and ideas of public groups in proportion to the civic and political capacity of those groups”(p. 8). Public associations that most successfully represent the interests of their constituents are built on the more politically engaged and informed segments of the electorate. Such constituent‐based groups are structurally stronger, better prepared, and able to contest for their objectives. “The advantages of extensive organized representation accrue to those public groups that are involved in their communities, interested in politics, and efficacious about their participation” (p. 8)."
"4","Among the points made: there can be “massive” differences in the extent of group organization; an association's effectiveness is judged largely in relation to the government's responsiveness to its demands; incorporating what could be seen as competing viewpoints into aggregated bodies of common interests has the best chance of being realized; accountability for interest group behavior is difficult to enforce; interest group advocacy rivals elections in importance; people associated with such interest groups do so in pursuit of a variety of collective goals; government processes for tapping into interest publics, combined with public indifference and limited information, empowers such agencies; and what Grossman refers to as “political capacity” leads to the greatest government responsiveness."
"5","There are other arguments to be made. As an example, rational‐choice modeling, Grossman writes, is less conducive to unraveling patterns of group operations than is the particular approach he emphasizes in the book. He concludes: “Scholars cannot yet claim to fully understand the dynamic interactive processes among public constituencies, organized representatives, and political elites, but this analysis offers hope for such a research agenda” (p. 179)."
"6","There are many attractive features to the analytic perspective employed, not the least of which are its attempts to relate interest advocacy to representative institutions in broad yet systematic terms and to develop its findings within the context of what constitutes a viable democratic state."
"7","                        "
"8","WILLIAM CROTTY"
"9","Northeastern University"
