"","x"
"1","In this insightful study, Rebecca M. Callahan and Chandra Muller show the importance of the national educational system of the United States in the social and civic integration of children of immigrants—one of the fastest‐growing segments of the U.S. population. The relevance of education, and public education in particular, has been highlighted, as mentioned by the authors, in the education program “No Child Left Behind,” initiated by President George W. Bush in 2001 and in “Race to the Top.” one of several programs initiated by the administration of Barack Obama."
"2","The political participation of youth in America is a highly relevant topic for the analysis of American society and one that could reveal interesting clues about the future political demographics of the country. Such an analysis can only be enriched by looking at the role that could be played by the children of immigrants, including those who have been raised in America."
"3","Callahan and Muller contribute to our knowledge about immigrant youth by analyzing one aspect not studied before. While previous research on children of immigrants has shown the importance of this sector of the youth population in terms of its implications for the future of the labor force and the electoral makeup in the next 10 or 20 years, this book analyses how children of immigrants are socialized into American society, and how motivated they will be to vote and become politically active citizens."
"4","The main hypothesis of the book is that high school provides an excellent arena for understanding the social and political development of children in general and children of immigrants in particular. High school provides knowledge in the form of courses designed by the curriculum and also provides a rich environment in which students learn how to socialize with peers and authorities in a wide and diverse social context as they develop their own identities. Particularly for children of immigrants, high school seems to fill a gap, given the lack of experience of their parents in how to operate socially in their new country. Children of immigrants have experience in bridging two cultures, something that resonates with the tenets of curricula in social sciences and that can anticipate political awareness."
"5","To test their hypothesis, the authors combined two large quantitative data sets, and a previous work done by Callahan. The data sets are: first, The National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health and Academic Achievement, and, second, the Longitudinal Educational Study 2002–2006. The third study (by Callahan) is qualitative: “New Citizens in a New Century.” This substantive national empirical data support the hypotheses about the role of high school in shaping the early adult political activity of students and especially of children of immigrant students. Furthermore the role of social science course‐taking proved important, if not in determining electoral preferences but in the fact that students are interested in voting. Among children of immigrants, who they will vote for is connected with family and community, particularly for those students who are active participants in community, but as Callahan and Muller state, the interest in voting and being engaged citizens may have been influenced by the social sciences courses that they took in high school."
"6","On the basis of the findings of the qualitative database, the authors explain that social science courses in high school contribute to students' political participation when they are adults. According to these authors, social science courses in high school in America are, despite, criticisms of being focused on “recitation of facts,” held up as a rich context for the development of critical thinking. Interviews with students and teachers show the rich experience of many students that have been motivated by their teachers, their coursework, and their classroom dynamics or by some combination of these."
"7","Callahan and Muller are aware that schools, teachers, and resources are not the same across the country and that children of immigrants will have different personal experiences according with these differences. Some students will have a reasonable level of English when they start school and will need help with the language in later years, having more time for taking social science classes, whereas most students will spend many years studying English and not being able to take social science courses. However, it seems that American History, Government, and Civic Education classes have a particular appeal for children of immigrants who live in a bicultural world and have the opportunity to compare what they know about their old country with the knowledge they are gaining about the United States."
"8","Callahan and Muller openly advocate against the idea of cutting social science courses in an era of devoting all educational efforts to ensuring that students pass the standard tests in mathematics and other subjects considered most necessary for the students to graduate and for the school to accomplish the objective of achieving national marks. They suggest that it is important to remember that decisions made today in national education are connected with the short‐term social and political future of the country. As was stated by the authors and repeated in this review, children of immigrants are the fastest‐growing sector of the school‐age population; to integrate them assures us a healthy functioning of American democracy for decades to come."
"9","                        "
"10","SARA Z. POGGIO"
"11","University of Maryland, Baltimore County"
