"","x"
"1","The author of this clearly written analysis is interested in the strategic decisions some armed groups make to enter the world of above‐ground politics by developing political wings. By contrast to others concerned with these decisions Benedetta Berti asserts that the decision by violent organizations to enter party political life is rarely linear. Using the ballot box does not mean necessarily giving up the bomb. Rather, she believes, we are dealing with a dynamic process, one that is hardly irreversible. In fact, Berti develops a hybrid model, according to which the organizations may put down and pick up weapons as the need arises."
"2","Further, the author identifies four factors, and their interactions, that determine the decisions of armed organizations to form political wings. First, the degree of institutionalization the organization develops. If the latter hopes to grow and remain relevant to its constituents or would‐be constituents, it will have an incentive to form a political wing. Second, such an organization will form a political wing when its resources and legitimacy are threatened by forces in its environment; in short, when the organization's intent to grow is threatened by external forces. Third, there is also the matter of the “opportunity structure” that the organization confronts as it pursues its aims; for example, do the authorities provide some mechanism by which the new political wing can compete openly at elections? And fourth, Berti refers to the internal dynamics of the armed organization. Here she has in mind the presence within the organization of individuals or factions who recognize the desirability of creating a political wing and have the ability to reform it accordingly."
"3","With these factors in consideration, the author devotes most of the rest of the book to three case studies: Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Irish Republican Army (IRA). The author should be praised for the amount of detailed information she has been able to assemble in describing the long‐term trajectories of these organizations. Naturally, given a short review such as this one, not much space can be devoted to repeating her accounts of these organizations’ pathways to their involvement in party political life. Based on these detailed accounts of the three cases, Berti concludes, unsurprisingly, that the four factors with which she begins her work have been confirmed by her three cases. Accordingly, in all three cases, the entry into party political life was in part a response to a threat to the organizations' legitimacy and relevance (p. 177); it also was a reaction to an opening of their “opportunity structure,” meaning the rules of the political game became such as to provide an opening for party formation (p. 178); Berti also asserts that the ‘strategic decisions were made at a point when these armed organizations were experiencing a decline in their access to important resources (p. 179); and finally, she reports these three factors must be propelled by a willingness on the part of the leadership group to innovate and shift focus (p. 180)."
"4","What should we make of these observations? For one thing the willingness of leaders to change is certainly true, but true by definition. If they're not willing to change, it is unlikely that political wings will emerge out of thin air. Second, it should be made clear that shifts in tactics may need not mean changes in goals. Hezbollah is now an important party to Lebanon's political life, but this does not mean that Sheik Nasrallah has turned his spears into pruning hooks; nor does it mean that the organization has softened in its hostility to Israel. On the other hand, the IRA/Sinn Fein changes in Northern Ireland did mean a shift in both means and goals. Finally, there is matter of range. Three case studies, two of which involve the Arab‐Israeli conflict, seem too limited from which to generalize about this important phenomenon."
"5","                        "
"6","LEONARD WEINBERG"
"7","University of Nevada"
