"","x"
"1","Richard Posner's new book is occasionally frustrating but eminently readable and ultimately highly rewarding. Apparently aimed at several different audiences (judges, lawyers, scholars, the general public), it is wide‐ranging and loosely organized, containing critiques of judicial opinions and scholarly writings, advice to judges on opinion writing and the conduct of trials, historical overviews of the courts' operations, an evisceration of the Bluebook, and a brief autobiography, among other things. There is evidence of haste in the book's composition, and it is hard to shake the feeling that it would be stronger if more time had been taken with it. Yet it offers an abundance of insights and a compelling message, all delivered with verve, humor, and even passion."
"2","Two large themes run through the book. One is complexity, both in law, including the law that judges produce, and in the world from which cases emerge. The other is the contest between “formalism” and “realism” in judging, where realism, advocated by Posner, has at its core “the idea that in many cases, and those the most important, the judge will have to settle for a reasonable, a sensible, result” (p. 6). Linking the two themes is Posner's assertion that formalist judges needlessly “complexify” the law, “in part to avoid the struggle to understand the complex real‐world environment that generates much of the business of a modern court” (p. 4). These themes provide sufficient unity to yield something more than a collection of related essays, although they are not fully enough integrated for the book to succeed as a sustained argument."
"3","With Posner touching on so many topics, regular readers of his work will recognize familiar themes and may wish for clearer statements of what is new and how. Depth sometimes seems to be sacrificed to breadth: claims and concepts are not always defined or defended as rigorously as they might be. Perhaps most disconcerting to some readers will be the freedom with which Posner criticizes others and offers suggestions for improvement. (He ends chapter 8 by rewriting another circuit judge's opinion!)"
"4","But readers will also notice a remarkable even‐handedness. Posner, who “voted enthusiastically” for (p. 26) and was appointed to the bench by Ronald Reagan, has no trouble finding liberal decisions and writers to criticize, but he is at least as tough on conservatives and seems to take particular pleasure in skewering Justice Antonin Scalia. Nor does he exempt his own work from criticism."
"5","More important is the quality of thought evident in Posner's observations. Consider this statement: “The perception of the [Supreme] Court as a political court in most constitutional cases and many nonconstitutional ones derives from the fact that the Justices form confident views without any empirical basis for them” (p. 83). This fresh take on an old question is just one of numerous claims plausible and weighty enough to be worthy of whole chapters (or more) in their own right."
"6","Most important are the concerns that motivate the book. Posner wants judges to accept and act on a few basic premises: their decisions and opinions have important consequences outside the courtroom, the world outside is messy and complicated, and therefore it can be difficult to predict whether the consequences of a particular action will be good or bad. Judges, recognizing limitations to their own knowledge and foresight and to the ability of abstract legal principles to address concrete problems, should be willing to actively seek information, consciously consider the consequences of the actions they're considering, take seriously the possibility that they might be wrong, and clearly explain the main reasons for their decisions in opinions they write themselves, not only because litigants and other readers deserve as much, but as a test of their soundness."
"7","This argument will not be entirely new to all readers; some will balk at elements of it, and few will agree with all of Posner's specific claims. But coming as it does from someone who combines the perspectives of scholar and judge as effectively as anyone ever has and who writes with a penetration and candor that are at times almost breathtaking, it deserves the close attention of anyone who cares about the judicial process."
"8","                        "
"9","DAVID KLEIN"
"10","University of Virginia"
